# Foreign Relations of the United States, Diplomatic Papers, 1938, The American Republics, Volume V
Fuente: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HistoryAtState/frus/master/volumes/frus1938v05.xml
Extracción: capítulos, subcapítulos o secciones cuyo encabezado menciona Dominican/Haiti/Hayti/Santo Domingo/Trujillo/Port-au-Prince/Dajabón/Massacre River, más documentos sueltos con dos o más menciones.


---
## [d14] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
710.H Agenda/27

No. 216 Ciudad Trujillo , February 23, 1938 . [Received February 28.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that the Dominican Republic and Colombia will jointly on March 1 deposit with the Pan American Union at Washington a draft proposal for consideration at the forthcoming Lima Conference of a proposed League of American Nations.

The placing of this item on the agenda of the Lima Conference does not, however, so far as Dominican Republic is concerned, indicate any burning zeal to see a Pan American league of nations instantly realized. It would appear that the Dominican Republic is redeeming its promise made at the Buenos Aires Peace Conference in December, 1936, whereby it agreed to support the project of Sr. Soto del Corral Jorge Soto del Corral, Chairman of the Colombian delegation to the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, Buenos Aires, December 1–23, 1936. for a Pan American League; but it is clearly realized in governmental circles here that the realization of such an international organization is not for the immediate future.

The Dominican Foreign Secretary, Mr. Ortega Frier, told me this morning that the idea of a Pan American League of Nations was more an aspiration, an ideal than a concrete program for adoption at the Lima Conference. He said the proposal needed to be worked out and that if such a plan were eventually placed into effect it would be the outcome of a generation of development, motivated largely by the necessity of small nations seeking strength through union.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d15] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
710.H Agenda/30: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 7, 1938—11 a.m. [Received 1:45 p.m.]

33. The Minister for Foreign Affairs tells me that he believes the Dominican Government seriously intends to press for the formation of a Pan-American League of Nations. Corroborating this, Leger Georges Leger, Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs. says that the present able Dominican representative here, Jimenez, is being sent to Peru as Dominican Minister there in order to prepare the ground to the above end for the forthcoming Conference of American States at Lima. Incidentally Leger understands that one of the two des Pradels is to come here.

With all this in mind Leger inquired regarding the Department’s attitude toward the formation of a Pan-American League of Nations, saying he would like to know this before being sounded out on this score by the Dominican Government which he felt would be soon.

At my solicitation Leger said that personally he felt the disadvantages of a Pan American League of Nations would far outweigh any possible benefits; that the present system comprising the Pan-American Union, the various inter-American treaties and the occasional conferences formed a satisfactory structure for inter-American activities the efficacy of which had been most happily demonstrated recently in the settlement of the Haitian-Dominican dispute. See pp. 178 ff. Leger feared that any attempt further to crystalize and embody this system in a written document by the establishment of a League of Nations might easily engender the disadvantages which had been so unfortunately demonstrated in the League of Nations and which the present elastic inter-American system largely avoids.

I should much appreciate as early a reply as possible since my guess is that the Dominican Government has already approached Leger but that he desires to defer his reply until learning our attitude.

Repeated to Ciudad Trujillo.

Mayer


---
## [d16] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
710.H Agenda/35: Telegram

Washington , March 7, 1938—8 p.m.

21. From the Under Secretary. Your 33, March 7, 11 a.m. The Department has not as yet had an opportunity to study attentively the project for an Association of American Nations supported by the Colombian and Dominican Governments. A copy of this project Proyecto de Tratado solve la creación de una Asociación de Naciones Americanas, y exposición de motivos (Bogotá, Imprenta Nacional, 1938). See also Diario de Sesiones , p. 202. was only left with me late last week by the Colombian Minister.

For the moment I think you had better limit yourself in replying Leger to saying that the Department has not as yet had an opportunity of studying the project above referred to nor of familiarizing itself with any other similar projects that other American governments may intend to present for consideration at the Lima Conference. You may add that in principle this Government is inclined to believe that the existing inter-American treaties and specifically the conventions and resolutions adopted at the Buenos Aires Conference for the Maintenance of Peace See Report of the Delegation of the United States of America to the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, Buenos Aires, Argentina, December 1–23, 1936 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1937), pp. 209 ff. form a satisfactory foundation for inter-American relationships and that these various agreements might best be modified or supplemented as experience demonstrates such amendment or supplementation to be desirable. So far as can be ascertained at this date, so many months prior to the holding of the Conference, certain of the larger American republics, notably Argentina and Brazil, are very much opposed to any form of association such as that proposed by the Dominican Government.

Hull


---
## [d17] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
710.H Agenda/37

No. 236 Ciudad Trujillo , March 9, 1938 . [Received March 14.]

Sir : Reference is made to my despatch No. 216 of February 23, 1938, concerning the League of American Nations proposed by the Dominican Republic and Colombia.

I have now the honor to report that the Minister for Foreign Affairs today indicated that his Government was endeavoring to enlist the support of as many Latin American countries as possible for the project and that three countries which he did not name but referred to as “a Central American nucleus,” had already responded favorably.

The Minister wanted me to understand that the proposed League of American Nations was merely the germ of a broader idea of his Government—namely some sort of a declaration of policy which he hoped would be brought up at the forthcoming Pan American Conference supported by the Dominican Republic, Colombia and other interested countries.

The Minister defined such a declaration as a medium through which the Latin American nations, particularly the smaller countries, could reciprocate our Good Neighbor Policy with a Pan American expression of solidarity behind the leadership and protection of the United States in connection with Europe and world politics and more specifically in connection with the problem of combating the infiltration of unwanted foreign influences in this hemisphere. The Minister dwelt at some length on this idea and the need for smaller nations such as the Dominican Republic to benefit from our liberal attitude by following our lead in such matters.

Argentina, the Minister commented, might not be entirely favorable to such a policy but sooner or later would have to realize the preponderance of power of the United States. The Minister believed that Argentina’s foreign policy under Dr. Cantilo, the new Foreign Minister, would be more liberal and less chauvinistic than under his predecessor, Dr. Saavedra Lamas.

The obvious intention of the Dominican Minister to have his country play a role in formulating Pan American ideals leads me to believe that his enthusiasm may possibly be coupled with a desire on the part of President Trujillo to recover any prestige abroad which he feels he may have lost as a result of the Haitian incident.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d19] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
710.H Agenda/42

No. 255 Ciudad Trujillo , March 24, 1938 . [Received March 28.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 236 of March 9, 1938, recounting the comment of the Dominican Foreign Secretary Ortega Frier. in respect of the Dominican-Colombian proposal for a Pan American League of Nations.

The Legation has received a note verbale from the Foreign Secretary dated March 16 transmitting the text of the draft treaty for the creation of an Association of American Nations with the comment that “the creation of the Association of American Nations does not collide with the organization at Geneva but, on the contrary, tends to collaborate with it for the maintenance of peace in the American continent.”

I enclose a translation of this note verbale and its accompaniment in the Spanish text. Neither printed.

In recent weeks, particularly since the breakdown of the original League of Nations as a political force has become more publicized by events in Europe, See vol. i , pp. 1 ff. I have found Mr. Ortega Frier anticipating the argument which will undoubtedly be voiced at Lima; that if the Geneva League of Nations was a failure an American League would suffer from like impotence. He counters this argument by analogy with the insistence that the fundamental conditions which will bring an American League of Nations into being are not the same as those which gave rise to the Covenant incorporated in the Treaty of Versailles. Foreign Relations , The Paris Peace Conference, 1919, vol. xiii , p. 69 .

It is Mr. Ortega’s thought that his American League of Nations will be given cohesive force and, consequently, political power, by the joint interest of all the American States in preserving their system of government and their American heritage against inimical outside influences seeking a foothold in the New World. Where the various American peace pacts have already given the American nations inter-continental security, he would add the League force to assure extra-continental security.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d33] The Secretary of State to Diplomatic Officers in the American Republics
710.H Peace/1

Washington , November 15, 1938 .

Sirs : Experience has disclosed that the multiplicity of peace instruments to which the American countries are parties has often resulted in confusion and delay when specific occasions arose in which one or more pacts might have been or were invoked. Some of these peace instruments are complementary to one another but in many cases they have introduced duplication and overlapping.

In a belief that a combination and integration of these various peace instruments would be desirable, the Department has drafted a consolidated peace treaty, three copies of which are attached hereto. Report of the Delegation , p. 193. See also “Proyecto de Tratado Sobre Consolidación de los Convenios Americanos de Paz,” Diario de Sesiones , p. 144, and index, p. xxxvi . It includes the substance of the principal provisions of every treaty combined and simplified in order to provide logical progression from one peace procedure to another.

You are requested to seek an immediate interview with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the country to which you are accredited and hand him, for the study and consideration of his Government, a copy of the draft project. You should explain this Government’s regret that it has not been possible to give him this document for his consideration at an earlier date, and that your Government is of course aware that the brevity of time before the opening of the Conference in Lima will make impossible the very thorough and careful study which he undoubtedly would wish to give to a project of this importance. Nevertheless, your Government has believed that his Government might entertain a similar view to that of this Government concerning consolidation of the peace instruments and therefore that he would be interested in examining the results of the Department’s effort, so that should the idea of a consolidated peace treaty meet with the favor of his Government and of the other American countries, the draft submitted to him with any improvement that may seem desirable might then be employed as the basis for discussion at the forthcoming Conference. Favorable reactions were received from Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Venezuela.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d58] The Chairman of the American Delegation ( Hull ) to the Acting Secretary of State
710.H Continental Solidarity/80: Telegram

Lima , December 19, 1938—6 p.m. [Received 7:44 p.m.]

44. Discussion of the proposed declaration of continental solidarity is still proceeding. The situation is much like that at Buenos Aires. Some 17 countries have indicated that they are substantially in accord with the position of the United States. Concha and Mello Franco, Afranio de Mello Franco, Chairman of the Brazilian delegation. the latter acting as chairman of the First Committee, are endeavoring to harmonize the various views. It is probable that these discussions will continue for another 2 or 3 days before reaching a conclusion. Note has been taken of the wording suggested by the President which has been discussed but naturally the ultimate form of words cannot now be predicted.

Both Cuban and the Argentine proposals to deal with the Spanish situation For documents on the Spanish Civil War, see vol. i , pp. 149 ff. have been discussed in the Committee on Initiatives. The consensus of the committee was that nothing could be done as matters now stood though the matter was held open pending possible developments during the week. It was definitely determined not to open the matter for debate at least for the time being. Since such debate would probably emphasize the differences this seems wholly desirable.

Venezuela has reminded us of our promise to support Caracas as the seat of the next conference. The division between Caracas and Bogotá appears to be almost exactly equal, Haiti and Santo Domingo [ Dominican Republic ] having the two deciding votes. For the time being they are supporting Trujillo City.

Hull



# CHAPTER [ch3] Tender of good offices by the United States, Cuba, and Mexico to conciliate differences between the Dominican Republic and Haiti Continued from Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , pp. 133 – 141 .

---
## [d164] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Atwood ) Sent, mutatis mutandis , to the Minister in Haiti, as Department’s No. 3, January 7, 7 p.m.
738.39/254a: Telegram

Washington , January 7, 1938—7 p.m.

2. It has been learned that the Associated Press is sending a despatch stating that the Dominican Minister here has confirmed that his Government is seeking a solution to the dispute with Haiti through direct negotiations to be submitted to the Permanent Commission. Pastoriza Andres Pastoriza, Dominican Minister in the United States. confirmed a previous report from “persons who claim to be well informed”, which stated as follows: “Solution of the incident between Haiti and Santo Domingo is the object of negotiations now being conducted that will lead, within a short time to complete settlement of the case, not only to solve the present difficulties, but trying to assure that in the future, no difficulties arise. “This explains the apparent discontinuance of the proceedings which have been carried on since the Gondra Pact of 1923 and the Convention of General Conciliation of Washington, of 1929, The Treaty between the United States and other American Republics, signed at Santiago, May 3, 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 308 , is known as the Gondra Treaty. This treaty was supplemented by the General Convention of Inter-American Conciliation, signed at Washington, January 5, 1929, ibid ., 1929, vol. i , p. 653 . were invoked by Haiti as a means of placing an end to the difficulties with the Dominican Republic over the events of October, last year.”

Please cable at once any information you can obtain with regard to these alleged discussions.

M. Abel Léger Former Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs; Haitian member of the Commission of Inquiry before the Permanent Commission in Washington. and Mr. Hoffman Philip Former American Ambassador in Chile; member for Haiti on the Commission of Inquiry before the Permanent Commission in Washington. addressed the Permanent Commission in a note dated January 6, 1937 which has as a purpose the exercise by the Permanent Commission of its conciliatory powers in the Haitian-Dominican dispute as provided in Article 3 of the Conciliation Convention until such time as the Commission of Investigation is constituted. The note notified the Commission of their appointment as commissioners and enclosed certified copies of their full powers, authorizing them to act in conjunction with the Permanent Commission in its conciliation functions, as well as on the ad hoc commission with respect to investigation and conciliation. The Haitian commissioners concluded by requesting to be informed when the Permanent Commission intended to convoke them with their Dominican colleagues for an exchange of full powers and for the opening of the labors foreseen in both Peace Instruments.

Hull


---
## [d165] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Atwood ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/255: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , January 8, 1938—noon . [Received 4 p.m.]

2. Department’s telegram No. 2, January 7, 7 p.m. The direct negotiations reported in my despatch No. 136 of December 29, 1937 Not printed. were on Thursday said by Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to be proceeding apace and he was confident that a direct settlement with Haiti would soon be made. He later qualified this assertion when he admitted that the Haitians were still asking for an indemnity of “millions” and that agreement had not as yet been reached on the amount of reparations to be paid the Haitian Government. I was informed last night by a source close to President Trujillo that the President had made a personal offer of $300,000 to President Vincent to drop the whole controversy. If this deal is accepted by Vincent the Dominican judicial investigation of the incident… which has thus far resulted in arrest of about 70 vagrants and has netted no member of the Dominican armed forces, will apparently be closed.

In past 10 days President Trujillo is reported to have been recruiting 500 men to increase Dominican armed forces to 3,700 effectives. It is therefore feared that if Vincent refuses to accept the deal, Trujillo may make troop demonstrations along frontier to intimidate Haiti into acceptance.

The illness of Roberto Despradel, Dominican Commissioner to the Commission of Inquiry, appears to have been a diplomatic one as the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs on Wednesday intimated that there was no need to incur the expense of sending Despradel to Washington when a direct settlement of the Haitian controversy was imminent.

In a broadcast to the country at eleven this morning President Trujillo announced officially his decision not to be a candidate for reelection and nominated Dr. Jacinto B. Peynado, Vice President of the Republic, and Dr. Troncoso de la Concha, special Dominican envoy to Washington, as candidates for President and Vice President of the Republic, respectively, in the constitutional elections to be held on May 16 next. The President said, however, that he would remain in the country and retain a watchful eye over the new administration.

Repeated to Port au Prince.

Atwood


---
## [d166] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/256: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 8, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 5:05 p.m.]

5. Department’s No. 3, January 7, 7 p.m. See footnote 2, p. 178 . and my telephone conversation of this morning with Duggan. Laurence Duggan, Chief of the Division of the American Republics. I tried another approach in this matter and discussed it with the Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Alfred, who is considered to be very close to the President. I described to him, as I have a number of times told the President, the dangers inherent in direct negotiations or any form of direct discussion prior to the completion of the inter-American treaty procedure by the establishment of the ad hoc commission.

After much circumlocution Alfred finally admitted that the Haitian delegation was “discussing” but not “negotiating” with Troncoso de la Concha; that this had been initiated by the latter who had suggested the desirability of learning what the Haitian Government had in mind for a settlement of the dispute; that the Haitian Government did not consider this as direct negotiation and would not consider any solution which was not under the aegis of the inter-American treaties. Alfred said, however, that they were anxious for a rapid and final settlement and showed clearly as I have previously reported the wish of the Haitian Government to take advantage of the conciliation function of the Permanent Commission to try to have the dispute settled immediately. Alfred expanded at some length on the fact that in accordance with the modern attitude Haiti could not expect any “forceful” protection in the event of difficulties with Santo Domingo but must rely on moral pressure which he did not seem to consider very effective.

I indicated clearly to Alfred that the conversations which he admitted were taking place were of course negotiations and that there could not be any distinction of this character. I concluded by again stressing the setting up of the commission ad hoc before any discussion, conversation or whatnot took place between the Haitian and Dominican representatives …

Mayer


---
## [d167] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/258: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 10, 1938—10 a.m. [Received 4 p.m.]

9. After his long explanation of the Calixte resignation, Col. D. P. Calixte, former commandant of the Garde d’Haiti; see footnote 71, p. 646 . the President talked to me at length yesterday afternoon respecting the Haitian-Dominican affair.

He declared, and read me his telegrams to Washington in support, that he was not in direct negotiation with the Dominican Government. In the same breath he revealed that some days ago he had authorized the Nuncio who went to Ciudad Trujillo just before the new year to discuss the matter informally with Trujillo outlining briefly to the Nuncio the various points which Haiti desired to have in a settlement including a million-dollar indemnity. Vincent said that the Nuncio had returned recently quite optimistic claiming to have found Trujillo in general accord on all the points except the indemnity which he said Trujillo would be willing to make $775,000. The Nuncio was returning to Ciudad Trujillo in 2 days and hoped to arrive at a basis of agreement as described which the two Presidents could initial and which Vincent would send to his delegation at Washington for submission to the Permanent Commission. Vincent stated repeatedly that the sine qua non of any settlement of the Haitian-Dominican affair was its sanction by the Permanent submission [ Commission? ].

Despite repeated efforts on my part I seemed unable to convince Vincent that the Nuncio’s efforts were “direct negotiations”. Vincent launched forth in a long explanation of what he was after, all in line with what I have frequently reported, namely, negotiations of the character now being carried on by the Nuncio, and probably here and in Washington, which would result in some rapid solution with the final blessing and under the protective aegis of the Permanent Commission.

Vincent explained at length that since the inter-American treaty structure under which he was acting was primarily concerned with peace and bringing the two parties together for a solution of any difficulties it was immaterial whether such a solution was achieved by conciliation under framework of Permanent Commission or by commission ad hoc both of which had conciliatory functions under treaty. Vincent stressed fact that Dominican interests had not accepted competence of Commission of Inquiry; that unless he arrived at some immediate solution such as now sought through the “Christian” influence of the Nuncio, he could only fear an impasse and weeks or months of further bickering and delay. This he felt would be most disadvantageous politically in Haiti and undesirable from every point of view, implying fear of Trujillo.

I went over several times the various arguments with respect to the immediate setting up of the ad hoc commission, the danger for Haiti in any other course, et cetera. This seemed to make no impression on the President whether on account of his rather exhausted state or otherwise I do not know, but probably otherwise.

My guess is that it is a question of fright…menace and temptation, resulting in the hope that Trujillo really means what he says and is willing to come to a satisfactory settlement. I only hope it will not prove as illusory as the French loan prospect. See pp. 602 ff.

Mayer


---
## [d168] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/259: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 10, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 4:47 p.m.]

10. My telegram No. 5, January 8, 2 p.m. and 9, January 10, 10 a.m. The President sent for me this morning and referred again to the negotiations which had been proceeding with the Dominican Republic. He stated that, through the intermediary of the Apostolic Nuncio accredited to Haiti and the Dominican Republic, an exchange of views (the President used the word “notes”) had taken place between the two Governments, and he handed me a draft of a proposed agreement which the Nuncio believes will be accepted by Trujillo and which he is taking to Trujillo tomorrow. I understand that this draft, having been prepared by him and the Nuncio on the basis of the two notes is acceptable to President Vincent. Text of draft will be forwarded by airplane tomorrow.

Meanwhile, the following is a summary: Preamble states that the two Governments wish to end the differences arising out of regrettable incidents of October last. The Dominican Government has already shown that it deplores the incidents, has proceeded to an official investigation and wishes to give complete satisfaction to the Haitian Government in order that the good relations between the two countries may be maintained. The Dominican Republic wishes to liquidate and end definitely all claims which the Haitian Government or Haitians may initiate against the Dominican Government. The two Governments also wish, by means of this agreement, to prevent a recurrence of these regrettable incidents.

By reason of these motives the Dominican Government expresses its regrets and renews its disapproval of the incidents, gives to the Haitian Government most complete assurances that the judicial investigation which has been initiated will be pursued efficiently and rapidly and that sanctions will be applied against those found guilty under Dominican law. The Dominican Government will satisfy the Haitian Government with regard to publicity to be given the condemnations and punishment of those found guilty in conformity with Dominican law.

The Dominican Government agrees to pay $750,000 to Haiti, $350,000 payable on signature of accord—the rest in yearly installments. The Haitian Government will use this sum according to its own judgment, in the best interests of the sufferers and their families.

The Dominican Government will legally replace all those against whom Haitians may have rights or claims as a result of the incidents, and it will collect for its own benefit all the sums which those responsible for the incidents may be condemned to pay. Haitian property owners in the Dominican Republic will be protected in their property rights. Haitians and Dominicans residing in the other country will receive reciprocal protection. Immigration between the two countries will be regulated by a special agreement to be worked up in the near future. An agreement will also be reached limiting armaments of the two countries in accordance with their need for internal security.

The agreement will be transmitted by the two Governments to their respective delegates at Washington in order that it may be submitted to the Permanent Commission. The agreement will be signed by the delegates before the Commission, and will be inserted in full in the report of the procedure of the Commission on conciliation functions.

At the President’s request, I read the text of this draft in his presence, but confined my comment only to saying that the document was “interesting.” I again took the occasion to warn the President of the dangers inherent in direct negotiations between the two countries.

Mayer


---
## [d169] Memorandum of Conversation, by Mr. Selden Chapin of the Division of the American Republics
738.39/260

[ Washington ,] January 10, 1938 .

Mr. Hoffman Philip called me this morning to say that he had received some information of interest from Abel Léger with regard to the settlement of the Haitian-Dominican dispute. Accordingly, as he was going out for lunch I went to the Metropolitan Club for a conversation with him.

Mr. Philip said that prior to the departure of Monsieur Léger and his associates, Monsieur Dantés Belgarde, and Monsieur Manigat, from Haiti they had drawn up a précis on the conference setting forth the circumstances of the massacres and deportations with a digest of the sworn statements, et cetera. The précis concluded with a summary of demands which the Haitian Government considered must be met by the Dominican Government in order to arrive at a satisfactory settlement. Among these demands were a cash indemnity of $1,500,000, an expression of regret from President Trujillo, a determination of those Dominicans responsible for the outrages with publication of their names and the punishments awarded, and guarantees for the future safety of Haitian life and property on Dominican soil.

Mr. Philip said that Léger informed him yesterday that he had received a cable from President Vincent explaining that when the Nuncio had approached President Vincent with an offer to be of service to him in composing the difficulties between the two nations and had inquired upon what basis President Vincent was prepared to effect a settlement, President Vincent had shown the Nuncio the last part of the précis setting forth the Haitian demands.

The Nuncio had taken note of these demands and had then proceeded to Ciudad Trujillo where he had conferred with the Dominican authorities, including presumably President Trujillo. On his return to Port-au-Prince the Nuncio informed President Vincent that Trujillo stood ready to grant most of these Haitian demands with certain slight modifications as regards a guarantee for the future safety of Haitian lives and property. President Trujillo, however, stated that he was unable to pay $1,500,000 as demanded but offered instead a cash settlement of $750,000. Almost immediately after the Nuncio had delivered these terms, a cable was received from President Trujillo to the effect that he could only pay in cash at the present time $150,000, but that he was willing to obligate himself to pay the balance, $600,000, in installments over a six-year period.

Monsieur Léger informed Mr. Philip that this news had only just been received from President Vincent who had stated in his cable that he was to see Mr. Mayer Sunday and would explain the whole matter to him. While I have no reason to doubt this last statement of Monsieur Léger I may point out in this connection that on Friday afternoon when Monsieur Léger and Monsieur Lescot called to see Mr. Duggan, Léger asked me to give him my personal opinion as to the feasibility in the event that an eventual Dominican indemnity should be paid in installments, of stipulating that these installments be made payable to the Pan American Union for transfer to the Haitian Government. In reply I stated that perhaps it would be best to sound out the Director of the Pan American Union before making such a stipulation but that at first hand I could see no objection if the settlement was indeed to be effected in conjunction with the Permanent Commission, to stipulate that the payments, if accepted, should be made payable to the Chairman of the Permanent Commission.

S[ elden ] C[ hapin ]


---
## [d170] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Secretary of State
738.89/264

[ Washington ,] January 11, 1938 .

Dr. Troncoso de la Concha, Special Envoy of the Dominican Republic to the United States in connection with the settlement of the Haitian-Dominican controversy, in company with the Dominican Minister, came in to pay his respects and to deliver a very cordial message from President Trujillo of greeting and good will, and of cooperation in every way to promote Pan Americanism and peace. I thanked him in appropriate terms and reciprocated the sentiments expressed.

C[ ordell ] H[ ull ]


---
## [d171] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Under Secretary of State ( Welles )
738.39/291

[ Washington ,] January 12, 1938 .

The Ambassador of Peru came to see me this morning primarily to inform me that the Government of Peru had fixed December 9, 1938 as the date for the opening of the Inter American Conference. See pp. 1 ff. I told the Ambassador that as he already knew any date which was agreeable to the Peruvian Government would be entirely acceptable to this Government.

The Ambassador then discussed briefly the Haitian-Dominican controversy and the duties of the Permanent Commission of which he is a member. He said that he did not feel that the Permanent Commission should assume any responsibility for the terms of any agreement which might be reached between Haiti and the Dominican Republic and that in that he disagreed with the Guatemalan Minister who was the Chairman of the Commission. I remarked that my own understanding of the problem was that while the Haitian Government was willing to reach a prompt settlement with the Dominican Government, it nevertheless believed that unless this settlement was formally reached under the auspices of the Permanent Commission it would not be worth the paper it was written on because the Dominican Government would not live up to any of the commitments it made therein and that the desire of the Haitian Government was to have the Permanent Commission exercise its conciliatory functions as a result of which a direct agreement would be made and that then the Permanent Commission could officially take notice of the agreement reached and announce that in view of the fact that an agreement had been reached the controversy was now ended. The Ambassador said that if this was the case it would be entirely satisfactory with him but that he did not feel that the Commission should take any responsibility for the terms of the agreement when the members of the Commission were not in a position which would really enable them to pass upon the merits of the controversy. I remarked that it seemed to me that his point of view was very well taken but that of course the questions involved would have to be determined by the members of the Permanent Commission and that it seemed to me unwise for this Government to express any opinion with regard to the procedure adopted.

The Ambassador then said that, as I knew, Dr. Concha, his Foreign Minister, was a very warm personal friend of mine who had complete confidence in the impartiality of this Government with regard to the pending Ecuadoran-Peruvian boundary dispute; See pp. 217 ff. that when Dr. Concha had recently become Foreign Minister he had instructed Dr. Tudela, the head of the Peruvian delegation in Washington, Francisco Tudela y Varela, Chairman of the Peruvian delegation to the Washington conferences for the arbitration of the boundary dispute between Ecuador and Peru. to keep me advised of the progress made in the boundary negotiations. I said that I was very happy to know that this was the case and that I had had a very interesting conversation with Dr. Tudela when the latter had called some ten days ago to tell me of the course he intended to pursue in these negotiations. The Ambassador said that since I knew Dr. Concha’s attitude I would understand that he was not expressing any personal disquiet in a cable which he had sent the Ambassador a few days ago remarking upon press despatches which had come from Washington relating that the delegates of Ecuador had come to see me twice last week and had discussed the boundary negotiations. The Ambassador said that apparently a great deal of prominence had been given in the Peruvian press to these reports and that Dr. Concha had asked him to inquire of me the nature of these conversations.

I told the Ambassador that I was not only most happy to tell him of the conversations but that I only regretted that he and Dr. Concha had not been in the room at the time. I said that Dr. Viteri Homero Viteri Lafronte, Chairman of the Ecuadoran delegation to the Washington conferences for the arbitration of the boundary dispute between Ecuador and Peru. had called to see me solely in order to tell me that he was now very optimistic as to the way in which the negotiations were proceeding; that he felt that the personal talks which he was having with Dr. Tudela were the only practical way of handling the negotiations and that he was now convinced for the first time that the Peruvian Government really desired to reach a satisfactory settlement through these negotiations. I said to the Ambassador that the only reason why these gentlemen had come to see me twice was that the first time they called I was very much pressed for time and that since, as the Ambassador knew, Dr. Viteri was a gentleman who talked at very considerable length, what he wanted to tell me had to be in two conversations instead of in one. I added that I wished that he would tell Dr. Concha exactly what I had said and that I regretted the press publicity given to these visits but that it was difficult for me, under our system, to avoid it. In conclusion I said that the attitude of this Government was perfectly well known to the Peruvian Government, namely that it was taking no part whatever in the conversations but that if either side wanted to tell us what was going on we could hardly avoid, as their host and as an impartial friend of both, listening to what they cared to say.

The Ambassador said he fully realized the circumstances and that he knew beforehand that this was what I would say. He said he was only afraid of undue publicity in Lima and that he thought that Dr. Concha might prevent the Peruvian press from giving exaggerated importance to something which had no importance in principle.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d172] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/263: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , January 12, 1938—4 p.m. [Received 6:05 p.m.]

5. Legation’s telegram No. 2, January 8, noon. The Foreign Minister informed me this morning that Despradel is proceeding to Washington at once. He said that the direct negotiations conducted in Washington between Abel Léger and Troncoso de la Concha were progressing toward an agreement on the idemnity to be paid by the Dominican Government. He hoped therefore that it would be possible shortly to report to the Permanent Commission that a solution satisfactory to Haiti had been found.

The Foreign Minister characterized as false the report that 500 men have been recruited for the Dominican Army but admitted that an increase of the reserve force was contemplated which would bring the total number of effectives to 4,000.

Repeated to Port-au-Prince.

Norweb


---
## [d173] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan )
738.39/270

[ Washington ,] January 13, 1938 .

Mr. Philip said that he had just come from a conversation with M. Abel Léger. M. Léger received this morning a letter from the President in which the President informed him that he had requested the Papal Nuncio to return to Ciudad Trujillo with the following counter-proposal to the Dominican offer: That Haiti would agree to a settlement of the dispute on the agreement that the Dominican Government should pay $750,000—$350,000 to be paid down and the remainder at the rate of $100,000 a year until extinguished. The Haitian Government also would require that the settlement be accompanied by the return in good condition of all properties of Haitians in the Dominican Republic that had been expropriated; by assurances with regard to the observance of Haitian rights in the Dominican Republic in the future, and by suitable guarantees covering the regulation and safety of Haitian labor in the Dominican Republic.

M. Léger stated that the President had indicated his apprehension with regard to future political developments if the dispute was not settled rapidly. Therefore, M. Léger expressed the belief that once an arrangement had been arrived at as a result of direct discussions it should be presented to the Permanent Commission, which taking note of it should declare the controversy at an end.

Mr. Philip stated that he had argued the point with M. Léger as a result of discussions that he had had with members of the Permanent Commission. The Argentine Ambassador in particular felt that it would be a mistake for the Permanent Commission to assume any responsibility for the terms of any agreement that might be arrived at outside of the treaty framework. He suggested that if an outside agreement were arrived at, it be submitted to the Commission of Inquiry which would return it to the Permanent Commission, which would then be in a position to declare the controversy terminated. Mr. Philip said that M. Léger proposed this procedure because of his belief that the Dominican Government would most reluctantly and after great delays agree to the composition of the Permanent Commission, since they seemed to fear trickery if the outside settlement were submitted to the Commission of Inquiry.

Mr. Philip and I had some discussion of this aspect of the matter but arrived at no definite conclusion. Having just read Mr. Welles’ memorandum of his conversation with the Ambassador of Peru on January 12 I took the line that there would seem to be no objection to the Permanent Commission merely taking notice of the agreement reached and of announcing the termination of the controversy in view of that agreement.

Mr. Philip also stated that the members of the Permanent Commission were arguing that the proceedings of the 1929 Conference See Proceedings of the International Conference of American States on Conciliation and Arbitration, Held at Washington, December 10, 1928–January 5, 1929 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1929). made it clear that even though requested by one of the parties to exercise conciliatory functions the Permanent Commission should not do so unless imminent danger to the peace of the continent threatened.

With regard to the last point made above, Mr. Kelchner Warren Kelchner, secretary-general to American delegation, Eighth International Conference of American States, Lima, 1938. has studied the proceedings of the 1929 Conference. Mr. Kelchner believes that the proceedings made it very clear that the drafters envisaged two categories: one in which a disputant requests the Permanent Commission to act, and the other in which the Permanent Commission functions on its own initiative. In the latter case there is the limitation that the Commission can function only at a time when there is a threat to the peace of the continent. On the other hand, when one of the disputants requests the Permanent Commission to function there would appear to be no such limitations. It was the consensus of the Conference that there should be some protection against undue delay by a disputant in constituting the ad hoc commission and hence the provision was made that the Permanent Commission could exercise conciliatory functions, without limitation, in case of a request by one party.

In the present case it must be kept in mind that there is little doubt that the Dominican Government has sought to delay the establishment of the Commission of Conciliation while Haiti on the other hand has weakened its position through entering into direct negotiations in spite of specific assurances to the contrary. Irrespective of the terminology used by the two Governments it cannot be denied that the proposed settlement is in effect a settlement by direct diplomatic negotiations.

Under these circumstances it would seem that the Permanent Commission cannot appropriately assume any responsibility for the terms of the proposed accord. While for obvious reasons the Permanent Commission would not wish to disapprove the settlement it would seem that approval by the Commission would give the Commission’s support to a violation of solemn treaty obligations, irrespective of the merits of the positions of the parties in dispute,—thereby weakening the whole peace structure of the Americas.

It is our opinion that the best procedure under the circumstances would be for the Permanent Commission to receive from the delegates notification of the direct settlement reached and to take cognizance of such settlement. The Permanent Commission might limit its action to taking note formally of this direct settlement between the disputants and to a statement that in view of this settlement no controversy between the disputants appears longer to exist.

L[ aurence ] D[ uggan ]


---
## [d174] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/276

No. 164 Ciudad Trujillo , January 17, 1938 . [Received January 20.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that when I called this morning to pay my respects to President Trujillo he confirmed with considerable emphasis the opinions expressed to Secretary Hull on January 11 by the Counselor of the Dominican Legation at Washington, Lcdo. Cruz Ayala.

President Trujillo began the interview by reading me an extensive letter from Lcdo. Cruz Ayala reporting his recent conversation with Secretary Hull. According to this communication, the Secretary had indicated his confidence that President Trujillo in common with other American statesmen, saw the imperative necessity for all the American nations to work loyally together to insure the observance of the treaties for the preservation of peace in the Western Hemisphere. Cruz Ayala wrote that he had in the name of the President expressed his complete agreement with this view and pledged that the Dominican Government would at all times conform its international policies to the provisions of the treaties to which it was a party.

President Trujillo told me that he ratified in every particular the statement of Lcdo. Cruz Ayala to Mr. Hull and that in the settlement of the present difficulty with Haiti he could give me full assurance that Dominican obligations under the treaties of conciliation would be observed.

The President told me that he was hopeful that a solution to the difficulty would soon be forthcoming and said that he thought the negotiations were progressing favorably in Washington. He added, however, that the Haitian problem was a fundamental one for his Government but doubted if any permanently satisfactory solution of it could be found in view of the factors of population, race and territory which make for continual irritation of feeling between the two countries.

For my part I expressed my gratification that the President through his emissary in Washington had indicated his sincere intention to cooperate with the other American nations for the observance of the peace treaties and my pleasure that according to his statement the negotiations within the scope of the conciliation treaties were progressing satisfactorily.

As the Department is aware from Despatch no. 35 of January 11, 1938 from the Legation at Port-au-Prince, Not printed. conversations between Haitian and Dominican spokesmen are not only being conducted at Washington, but locally the Papal Nuncio is seeking to be the intermediary between the two Governments for a direct settlement. The Nuncio arrived here on January 12 by the same airplane which brought Lcdo. Arturo Despradel, the Legal Adviser to the Executive Power, who last month was sent to Haiti in an attempt to secure the re-opening of direct negotiations between the two Governments. As indicated by the Legation in Port-au-Prince, the Nuncio brought with him the very comprehensive draft of a proposed agreement for the settlement of the controversy.

In examining the text of this draft the Legation has noted that the Haitian Government seeks an indemnity of $750,000 payable in the period 1938–1942. From a banking source close to President Trujillo it is learned that the President has apparently agreed to the payment of such a figure. The same informant said that the President could, if he desired, pay that amount in one lump sum from his own personal funds; a statement more an indication of the President’s wealth than that payment will be made in such a manner.

I am not yet in a position definitely to report to the Department the Dominican reaction to the Haitian draft as proposed by the Nuncio. Conversations have gone ahead since his arrival, and he is returning by air to Port-au-Prince tomorrow, presumably with the counter-proposals of the Dominican Government. The Foreign Secretary told me on the 15th that all channels which might lead to a settlement were being actively explored and that none which conduced to agreement would be ignored. There is a possibility, therefore, that the Legation will be able to report definite developments resulting from the Nuncio’s visit within a few days.

Whatever the agency of settlement employed, there does appear to be ground for the hope that a solution of the present difficulty will presently be found, although it is realized, as President Trujillo said, that the fundamental problem with Haiti is of a more basic and enduring character, founded upon economic and sociological factors which can not be exorcised by the payment of indemnities or promises of good behavior. So long as two-thirds of the population of this island inhabit one-third of the territory there will be pressure upon the Dominican-Haitian frontier and with such pressure, trouble.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d175] Memorandum by the Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan )
738.39/289

[ Washington ,] January 18, 1938 .

Mr. Philip informed me that there has been the following developments at the meeting at the Pan American Union held before the Permanent Commission of the Haitian-Dominican representatives on the Commission of Inquiry: 1) The Dominican delegation expressed its willingness to proceed with conciliation proceedings before the Permanent Commission. 2) The Permanent Commission thereupon suggested that the proper procedure seemed to be the election of the fifth member to the Commission of Inquiry; 3) The Dominican delegation then stated that it had instructions to endeavor to reach a solution through conciliation before proceeding to the selection of the fifth member of the Commission of Inquiry; 4) The Haitian delegation (M. Léger) then stated the procedure suggested by the Dominican delegation was agreeable to the Haitian delegation. (Afterwards M. Léger informed Mr. Philip that he had received a communication from President Vincent instructing him not to press for the nomination of the fifth member. President Vincent stated that what he desires is a solution and not a long drawn out proceeding through the Commission of Inquiry). 5) The Permanent Commission stated that if an agreement were reached through direct negotiations it should be submitted by the two delegations to the Permanent Commission. 6) It was agreed that the next meeting before the Permanent Commission should take place on January 31. This date was selected, since the Haitian delegation had instructions that President Vincent desired a period of seven to eight days in which to carry on his direct negotiations with the Dominican Government.

L[ aurence ] D[ uggan ]


---
## [d176] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/285

No. 166 Ciudad Trujillo , January 19, 1938 . [Received January 24.]

Sir : I have the honor to report that in the course of my regular weekly call on the Foreign Minister this morning, he had occasion to speak for the first time of the efforts of the Papal Nuncio towards a settlement of the Dominican-Haitian controversy. It seemed to be Mr. Ortega Frier’s purpose to make it clear that these exchanges were complementary to the discussions now taking place in Washington; that while the Nuncio was acting as intermediary between the two Presidents, the Gondra Treaty procedure was still the cornerstone for the negotiations between the two Governments and every phase of the Nuncio’s participation was being reported to the Special Representatives of the two countries in Washington. He again expressed confidence that satisfactory progress was being made and indicated that if the Haitians were willing to accept “a transactional settlement” based on the payment of an indemnity to be distributed among the victims he felt that this would not be difficult to reach. However, should the Haitian Government insist on the question of responsibility, the Dominican representatives have no instructions to discuss this phase pending the termination of the juridical investigation. In concluding the Minister again assured me that the discussions in Washington and the Nuncio’s activities were all related; that there was no danger of working at cross purposes and that should it seem desirable for him to go to Washington, he was authorized by the President to make the trip if in doing so he could expedite a satisfactory settlement.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d177] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/277: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , January 20, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 5:10 p.m.]

7. Legation’s despatch 164. January 17, p. 190 . The Foreign Minister informed me this morning that the indemnity has been fixed at $750,000 and there is now no serious disagreement between the Haitian and Dominican Governments except on articles 6 and 9 of the Nuncio’s draft. The Dominican Government feels article 6 should not confirm squatters’ rights for returning Haitian refugees and that article 9 should permit armaments for external as well as internal security. The Foreign Minister was nevertheless optimistic as a result of the Nuncio’s negotiations and reports from Washington and thought a definite agreement would shortly be reported to the Permanent Commission for incorporation in a protocol of settlement.

Norweb


---
## [d178] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/278: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 20, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 6:18 p.m.]

21. My telegram No. 10, January 10, 2 p.m. and my despatch No. 40 of January 17. Despatch not printed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs states that Trujillo has made a counterproposal which he has initialed. Léger said that the two Governments were in accord on the major points, Trujillo agreeing to a $750,000 indemnity or $250,000 cash down.

The Dominican Government wishes to include in the settlement a detailed arrangement regarding immigration. Léger feels that it is necessary to give a matter of this importance more consideration than permitted by the present negotiations for the Haitian-Dominican affair. Léger, however, is agreeable to statement of general principles with regard to immigration which the Haitian Government will gladly follow up shortly with a detailed agreement.

Léger also said that he and the President intended to stand firmly on the condition that whatever understanding resulted from the present informal negotiations now being carried on by the Nuncio (he is expected back today via Dominican military plane), it should be understood that the definite and final agreement would have to be arrived at in Washington and under the aegis of the Permanent Commission. Léger envisages that if the two Presidents come to an understanding, as he expects will be the case any day, this will be forwarded in draft form to the two delegations in Washington which will then submit the same to the Permanent Commission.

Léger also stated that the Dominican Minister of Foreign Affairs hopes to leave shortly for Washington to participate in the final negotiations. President Vincent suggested to Léger that he also go to Washington but Léger felt that he was more needed here to which the President agreed.

Repeated to Ciudad Trujillo.

Mayer


---
## [d179] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/280: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 22, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:10 p.m.]

23. My 21, January 20, 2 p.m. Léger informs me that after long negotiations here yesterday the two Governments are in agreement except for the one question of immigration—repatriation (see second paragraph my telegram under reference). Léger hopes that Trujillo will agree to his proposal in this respect and that the draft arrangement can be forwarded to Washington by tomorrow’s air mail and be submitted to the Permanent Commission early in the week. Repeated to Santo Domingo.

Mayer


---
## [d180] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/281: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 22, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 3:10 p.m.]

24. My telegram No. 23, January 22, 1 p.m. Am informed full accord reached here. Repeated to Santo Domingo.

Mayer


---
## [d181] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/283: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , January 24, 1938—10 a.m. [Received 11:02 a.m.]

8. Telegrams 23, and 24 of American Legation at Port-au-Prince. The Foreign Minister has confirmed the report that a basis for agreement has been reached and will be submitted Permanent Commission. Repeated to Port-au-Prince.

Norweb


---
## [d182] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/286: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , January 24, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 4:40 p.m.]

9. Legation’s despatch 116 [ 166 ], January 19. The Foreign Minister is leaving for Washington by air January 28.

Repeated to Port-au-Prince.

Norweb


---
## [d183] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/317

[Extracts]

No. 194 Ciudad Trujillo , February 9, 1938 . [Received February 14.]

Sir : Now that a Protocol of Settlement has been signed by the representatives of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Signed at Washington, January 31, 1938; for exchange of messages by President Roosevelt and the Presidents of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, see Department of State, Press Releases , February 12, 1938, pp. 229–232. terminating the controversy which arose as the result of the tragic massacres of last October, I have the honor to submit to the Department certain observations in retrospect which I feel, for the Legation at least, will be of value in deriving certain lessons from the negotiations thus brought to conclusion.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

… The action of Haiti in requesting the good offices of Cuba, Mexico and the United States on November 12 made the matter squarely a test of that will for peace which found concrete expression at the Buenos Aires Conference in December 1936. Thus the main line of the Legation’s diplomacy early became established by conditions beyond its control; the appeal of Haiti for good offices and the prompt action upon that appeal made by the Governments of Cuba, Mexico and the United States.

The Legation, accordingly, on November 15, strongly impressed upon President Trujillo the necessity for securing a settlement of the controversy within the spirit of the American peace treaties. From this principal thesis the Legation did not depart in subsequent discussions with the Dominican Government.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Two pressures, however, at last forced the Dominican Government into a settlement of the controversy against its will. The first of these was the world press, which gave with considerable accuracy of detail a dramatic picture of the savage mass murders which had caused the dispute and enlisted the sympathy of outside nations with the injured party to the controversy. The second pressure exerted was probably not of such immediate moment to the Dominican Government but without it it is doubtful if adverse publicity alone could have compelled President Trujillo to accede to a settlement. This force was the practically unanimous will among the nations of the Western Hemisphere that international disputes should have peaceful settlement. Its unvarying application by the United States and the other interested Governments was a contributing if indirect factor in forcing the compromise of the dispute within the framework of the Gondra Pact and the 1929 Treaty of Inter-American Conciliation.

While analysing these pressures it must be recognized, however, that the actual instrument of settlement was not the Permanent Commission of the Gondra Treaty sitting in Washington nor the American Governments invoking the various instruments for the settlement of international difficulties, but was the diplomacy of the Vatican.

Due most probably to the considerable influence upon President Trujillo of the Archbishop of Santo Domingo, Monsignor Richard Pittini, and to the strong interest in the dispute of the Papal Nuncio to both countries, Monsignor Silvani, the Church offered the two Governments a means for meeting on common ground; and the final protocol signed at Washington was none other than the instrument drafted by the Papal Nuncio a fortnight before.

This participation of the Nuncio in the settlement was due more to force of circumstances than to deliberate policy on the part of the Holy See. Previously, in early November, the Nuncio had attempted to mediate in the dispute and had been rebuffed. It was only when President Trujillo under the unremitting pressure of the moral force which found expression in the peace treaties realized that some form of settlement would have to be offered, that he found in the Legation of the Vatican an exit which would give him that settlement by direct negotiation which had been all along the principal object of his Government. It is indisputable in my mind that had not the treaties been invoked and their moral force applied President Trujillo would have followed the line so clearly indicated by his representatives from October through December: an insistence that the joint communiqué of October 15 República Dominicana, Secretaria de Estado de Relaciones Exteriores, Memoria de Relaciones Exteriores de 1937 (Imprenta Listin Diario. Ciudad Trujillo, R. D., 1938), p. 66. settled the controversy and that consequently no difference with Haiti existed.

Accordingly, while I know of no recent instance in the diplomatic history of the American Republics in which Vatican diplomacy has been availed of for the appeasement of international differences, I feel that this present case must be judged in the light of the special circumstances attendant, and that in many respects it was a local phenomenon. At the same time the participation of the Holy See in an American diplomatic controversy will no doubt attract the continued interest of the Department.

I would add in this respect that the Dominican Government and press have made no reference to the assistance of the Papal Nuncio in bringing both parties together, and that on the contrary the settlement has been played up as an example of Dominican fidelity to the principles of inter-American solidarity in behalf of peace.

As for the lessons which may come from the negotiations now terminated, it is my feeling that the Legation should earlier have foreseen that the nature of the controversy was such as to make exceedingly difficult the chances for success of the conciliatory processes established by the American peace treaties. Had the Legation sooner informed the Department of the practical impossibility of the Dominican Government willingly accepting any conciliatory machinery, it may have been that the friendly Governments would not so quickly have tendered good offices and that it might have been possible to work out a direct arrangement between the two countries through diplomatic channels. Once the treaties were invoked, however, and mediation was offered, as has been seen the Dominican Government tried every means of escape from the treaty forces which were brought into play.

I recognize, of course, that the internal situation in Haiti was precarious, and that quick action was essential lest conditions in that country become chaotic, which would have greatly lessened the prospects for a peaceful arrangement of the difficulties with the Dominican Republic. Notwithstanding this evident fact, it was argued in the Dominican Republic that, to preserve domestic stability in one country, the friendly powers threatened to disturb it in the other.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

My only observation in this regard is that in future it might be even more effective if, before calling into play the American peace accords, more time could be devoted to a diplomatic preparation of the ground.

As for the specific case for which a transactional settlement has just been found, I feel that the Protocol signed at Washington was a good arrangement under the circumstances. The Dominican Government had the satisfaction of achieving a settlement by direct negotiations, the Haitian Government received a substantial indemnity and prompt action with which to appease popular feeling at home, and the community of American nations saw that the spirit of the peace treaties was an active force. Beyond doubt the greatest value from the wider point of view was this; that the peace treaties had been called into play in a serious dispute and had not been found wanting. Such a demonstration establishes a precedent in the right direction.

I regret that in respect of the basic Haitian-Dominican problem I can not be sanguine. The Protocol of Settlement promises some progress for adjusting certain mutual problems, such as armaments and immigration. On the latter question, so long as the present Foreign Secretary is in office, the Legation would anticipate that a strong line will be followed in accordance with Mr. Ortega’s view that persons of African blood, especially from Haiti, are undesirable aliens and threaten to extinguish the “neo-white” civilization in the eastern areas of Hispaniola. While owing to the needs of the sugar industry Haitian contract cane cutters may be admitted annually for the sugar season and carefully returned to the other side of the frontier at the end of their employment, there is no doubt that the infiltration of Haitian migrants to Dominican territory will be sternly repressed.

The old problem therefore persists. So long as one third of the island holds two thirds of the population there will be pressure upon the frontier and with that pressure, trouble. There is no solution for that problem other than birth control or industrialization in Haiti—both outside the realm of probability—or immigration of surplus elements of the Haitian population. Such elements are now being deported from Cuba, and the Dominican frontier, shielding a sparsely settled territory, is closed. A crisis will eventually come in Haiti, and at that time the ancient enmity will awake between the two peoples. Wergild and bloodwight have been paid, but the settlement was well termed “transactional”.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d184] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/328

No. 214 Ciudad Trujillo , February 23, 1938 . [Received February 28.]

Sir : I have the honor to confirm my telegram No. 14 of 11 a.m. Not printed. this morning, informing the Department that the Dominican Government proposes to pay the first installment of $250,000 on the indemnity to Haiti at Port-au-Prince on Saturday February 26.

Following the refusal of the home office of the National City Bank of New York to approve the request for a loan made by the Dominican Government last week, as outlined in my despatch No. 203 of February 17, Not printed. President Trujillo transferred $250,000 from his checking account in the local branch of the National City Bank to…the Sociedad Bancaria, which in turn purchased a draft on New York in the amount of the indemnity, payable to the order of the Haitian Government. The Foreign Minister informed me this morning that the draft will go by air mail at once to Port-au-Prince and will be delivered by the Dominican Minister there on Saturday morning.

With this monetary fulfillment of the provisions of the Protocol of Settlement of January 31, I am pleased to report that the Dominican Government is also carrying out the other provisions of that treaty. I enclose with this despatch a copy, with translation, of a hand bill which is now being circulated among Dominican residents on the Haitian frontier over the signature of President Trujillo. This proclamation strictly enjoins Dominican residents to refrain from disputes with persons of Haitian nationality and to have recourse to judicial tribunals instead of direct action in the event of trouble. Inhabitants of the border regions are informed by this public notice that the Dominican Government will enforce by every means in its power its resolve to prevent the illegal entry of Haitian nationals into Dominican territory and the penetration of Dominican nationals into Haitian territory.

With the prompt carrying into effect of the provisions of the Protocol of Settlement of January 31, it is my feeling that peace will for a time prevail on the Haitian-Dominican frontier.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d185] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/325: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , February 26, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 2:55 p.m.]

31. Fiscal representative informs me that check for $250,000 made out to order of the Government of the Republic of Haiti at the National City Bank of New York and endorsed by Mr. George Léger, has been handed to him for deposit, representing the first payment by Dominican Republic to Haitian Government in accordance with agreement of January 31st.

Mayer



# CHAPTER [ch24] Negotiations for a convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic modifying the convention of December 27, 1924, regarding Dominican customs revenue Continued from Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , pp. 440 – 467 .

---
## [d499] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4580

No. 204 Ciudad Trujillo , February 17, 1938 . [Received February 21.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that yesterday afternoon I had my first interview with the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ortega Frier, since his return from the United States on February 15.

Mr. Ortega spoke at considerable length of his conversations in the Department and I feel it may be useful to submit a report on what he had to say in order that the Department may corroborate his statements to me.

Mr. Ortega said that he had discussed the problem of eliminating the 1924 Convention For text of convention, see ibid. , 1924, vol. i , p. 662 . with great candor and that he had found a satisfactory meeting of the minds with respect to the prime requisite of changing the 1924 Convention, which was that an honorable release was sought on both sides from the engagement, on one part, that the United States protect the holders of the Dominican Government’s bonded indebtedness and, on the other part, that the Dominican Government accept the guarantee of that obligation through the Receivership General of Customs.

Mr. Ortega said that he had proposed that the Dominican Government draft legislation which would pledge the entire revenues of the Government as a prior lien for the bondholders to provide amortization and interest on the foreign debt on the same scale as now provided under the provisions of the 1924 Convention and the subsequent amendment of its terms by the 1934 agreement between the Dominican Government and the Bondholders Council. See ibid. , 1934, vol. v , pp. 189 ff. In addition to this legislation (which he said he would transmit, through the Legation, in all stages of its formulation in order that the Department might be aware of what was contemplated) Mr. Ortega proposed that the Dominican Government enter into a contractual obligation with the bondholders setting forth the terms of the laws pledging the entire revenues of the Dominican Government as a prior lien to secure the amortization and service of the debt. He wanted this contract as a double security for the bondholders, as legislation might unilaterally be changed by an act of the Dominican Congress whereas a contract could not be abrogated except by joint agreement of the two parties.

To obtain the consent of the bondholders to this procedure the Dominican Government would greatly appreciate the assistance of the Department in establishing contact with them. Mr. Ortega would rely in this regard upon the good will and cooperation of the Department.…

Once the bondholders had accepted the new contractual status proposed for the amortization and service of the bonds, Mr. Ortega said it would then be possible to consider the abrogation of the 1924 Convention. A new convention of amity and commerce might be negotiated. The Foreign Secretary, however, did not want this new treaty between the United States and his Government to have any connection with the old, or with the payment of the Dominican foreign debt. He said,

“I think a good way to handle it would be for the United States to make a unilateral declaration, referring to the Good Neighbor Policy and pointing out that in pursuance of that policy the time had been found right for a change in its treaty relationships with the Dominican Republic. Such a statement will increase President Roosevelt’s prestige even more in the American Republics, and it will pave the way nicely for the negotiation of our new Convention.”

Although to the bondholders the entire revenues of the Dominican Government would be pledged for the repayment of their debt, Mr. Ortega Frier foresaw that the Receivership of Customs mechanism at least would be retained in much its present form. He thought that a change of personnel would be inevitable and that Mr. Pulliam, William E. Pulliam, General Receiver of Dominican Customs. owing to his advanced age and long years of service, would be given a special “jubilación” Pension. from the Dominican Government upon the termination of his services.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d500] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4584

No. 213 Ciudad Trujillo , February 23, 1938 . [Received February 28.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 204 of February 17, 1938, reporting the views of the Dominican Foreign Secretary, Mr. Ortega Frier, in respect of forthcoming conversations looking toward the revision of the 1924 Convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic.

Mr. Ortega intimated to me this morning his desire that preliminary conversations in this regard take place locally between the Legation and the Dominican Foreign Office, stating that he thought this would be an excellent way in which to initiate the negotiations. He said that the Dominican Minister at Washington, Mr. Andres Pastoriza, is expected to arrive here this afternoon or Friday by air from the United States to go over the ground with the Foreign Office on the question of the 1924 Convention and its revision.

Mr. Ortega again alluded to Mr. Pulliam’s long years of service and the prospects for his future, inquiring guardedly how this question should be approached. I replied that I thought the matter could well wait until the question of the replacement of the 1924 Convention and the Receivership mechanism established thereby was settled, when it could be taken up with Mr. Pulliam.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d501] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4588

No. 224 Ciudad Trujillo , February 28, 1938 . [Received March 4.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 204 of February 17, 1938, reporting the views of the Dominican Foreign Secretary, Mr. Ortega Frier, in respect of forthcoming conversations looking toward the revision of the 1924 Convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic.

As further illustrating the feeling in the Dominican Government as to the necessity of abrogating the 1924 Convention, I desire to report a conversation between President Trujillo and Colonel James Roosevelt yesterday on the occasion of a luncheon given Colonel Roosevelt by the President during his brief visit in Ciudad Trujillo.

President Trujillo mentioned the eager desire of the Dominican Government for a removal of the restrictions on Dominican sovereignty imposed by the 1924 Convention and intimated his confidence that President Roosevelt in pursuance of the Good Neighbor Policy would give sympathetic consideration to the revision of that treaty. Colonel Roosevelt replied (at my previous suggestion) that he understood that the question was one under discussion between the two governments and that he was sure it was his father’s wish that a satisfactory arrangement be worked out.

I mention this exchange between President Trujillo and Colonel Roosevelt because it illustrates not only the point of view in the Dominican Government but a probable line of policy which will be followed in the negotiations for the moderation of the 1924 Convention. The Dominican thesis seems to be that the United States, strictly to comply with the Good Neighbor Policy, must in any and all cases where some previous treaty commitment implies an American interest supposedly at variance with that policy at once throw over the treaty commitment. In other words, the presumed “obligations” of the United States under the Good Neighbor Policy are paramount as compared with the obligations of the United States as expressed in the 1924 Convention.

In rejoinder it may be pointed out that good neighborliness is reciprocal, that the fulfilling of contracts properly incurred is of its essence, and that the United States in pursuance of this idea expects to have assurance that the bondholders, for whom it holds a moral responsibility under the 1924 Convention, will be protected beyond any doubt under such new system as may be proposed by the Dominican Government to replace the Receivership now in effect.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d502] The Secretary of State to the Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb )
839.51/4588

No. 52 Washington , March 8, 1938 .

Sir : The Department has received your despatches nos. 213 and 224 of February 23 and 28, 1938, respectively, regarding the desire of the Dominican Foreign Secretary to initiate preliminary conversations in Ciudad Trujillo looking to the revision of the 1924 convention between this country and the Dominican Republic.

In as much as all previous conversations on the subject have taken place in Washington, it is believed that you may concur in the Department’s view that it would be easier and more satisfactory for the discussions as to any proposals which the Dominican Government may wish to advance to take place in this city rather than in Ciudad Trujillo.

Accordingly, you are requested at an early opportunity to make known to Lic. Ortega Frier, the Dominican Foreign Secretary, the Department’s preferences in this regard.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d503] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4591

No. 238 Ciudad Trujillo , March 12, 1938 . [Received March 15.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the Department’s instruction No. 52 of March 8, 1938 (File No. 839.51/4588), requesting me to make known to Lic. Ortega Frier, the Dominican Foreign Secretary, the Department’s view that it would be easier and more satisfactory for the discussion of any Dominican proposals with regard to revision of the 1924 Convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic to take place in Washington rather than in Ciudad Trujillo.

I imparted the view of the Department in this respect to the Foreign Secretary this morning who expressed disappointment again and referred to his President’s wish that the conversations to be initiated here and brought to a stage where final agreement at least should be in sight before his forthcoming resignation as Foreign Secretary.

It was apparently the view of both President Trujillo and Mr. Ortega Frier that it was preferable not to work through Minister Pastoriza in Washington, although this view implied no lack of confidence in their representative, a fact borne out by the return of Mr. Pastoriza to Washington with a considerable increase in salary. The opinions of the Foreign Secretary and the President, which seem strongly held, apparently are based on a conviction that Mr. Pastoriza in presenting his various formulas has laid emphasis more on details than upon basic principles. Mr. Ortega this morning said that he wished to initiate conversations based on two considerations; the first, that the abrogation of the 1924 Convention was desirable as the Convention is now an anachronism, conforming neither with American foreign policy nor with the general principles of constitutional and international law. Secondly, the Foreign Secretary thought it would be helpful to recognize at the outset that the Receivership in some form or another was an efficient means of guaranteeing the Dominican Government’s obligations to the bondholders and that, whereas previous Dominican proposals had envisaged substantial modification or even the termination of the Receivership with the Convention, Mr. Ortega thought that it should be retained.

Mr. Ortega said that when his Minister returned to Washington next week he would communicate with the Department his view in respect of the place where preparatory conversations should be held.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d504] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Hinkle ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4610: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , June 6, 1938—4 p.m. [Received 7:10 p.m.]

31. The President called me to the Foreign Office today where the Dominican Foreign Secretary read a despatch just received from Minister Pastoriza giving Secretary Hull’s suggestion that both notes A note dated May 4 was delivered to the Department by the Dominican Minister on May 10. A reply was handed to the Dominican Minister by the Secretary of State on May 19. These notes together with a second note of June 21 from the Dominican Minister were withdrawn on July 7. (839.51/4607, 4612½) be withdrawn.

The President said that he was entirely agreeable to this provided that informal conversations could be held in Washington with some assurances of success. He felt that exchanges of notes would not achieve results and that the note mentioned in my telegram No. 30, June 2, 10 a.m. Not printed. would not be submitted. He could, however, send the Dominican Foreign Secretary as special envoy but did not wish to do so without at least some general idea of what at present would be acceptable to our Government and requested the Legation to secure if possible some such expression.

The President said he understood both countries were desirous of a revised convention and reiterated the modifications suggested by the Minister contained in my telegram 30, June 2, 10 a.m., adding that the Dominicans would be glad to consider any other modification which might reasonably protect the bondholders without infringing on Dominican sovereignity.

The President said that he would like to reach an agreement before retiring from the Presidency in August and intimated that failing this he might have to consider publishing the notes to show that he had at least tried his best. Failing informal discussions the Foreign Minister thought the only other recourse would be to submit the Dominican contentions to arbitration.

The President in concluding emphasized his country’s obligations towards the convention and stated that any idea of unilateral action was unthought of.

Hinkle


---
## [d505] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Hinkle )
839.51/4610: Telegram

Washington , June 8, 1938—3 p.m.

22. Your 31, June 6, 4 p.m. You should request an interview with President Trujillo immediately and inform him that you have communicated his views to the Department and the Department has instructed you to state that it stands ready as it has indicated on several previous occasions to proceed immediately with negotiations with the Dominican Government regarding a readjustment of the Convention of 1924. You may say in this connection that the general principles of the Department’s attitude towards readjustment of the existing treaty relationship were amply set forth in the Department’s counter suggestions to the Dominican proposals in the spring of 1937, which culminated in the Department’s final counterdraft of a convention delivered to the Dominican plenipotentiaries on April 12, 1937. Counterdraft of this date not found in Department files; for the American counterproposal of March 22, see Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , p. 453 . The Department has never received any detailed comment from the Dominican Government regarding this counter proposal.

You may add that while the Department would not wish to give the impression that any future proposals should necessarily be limited to the lines of the negotiations already undertaken, it would be lacking in candor were it not to make clear from the outset that the rights of the holders of the bonds of the external loans must be adequately safeguarded. Subject to such a restriction the Department will be glad to consider sympathetically any proposal which the Dominican Government on its initiative may care to advance, and will make every endeavor to return a prompt reply. You should add that since the party desirous of modifying the convention is the Dominican Republic and since the last counter proposal of the United States has so far remained unanswered, the Department believes that the initiative should come from the Dominican Government.

Finally you may say that in the opinion of the Department, while it is desirable that the negotiations should take place in Washington, there would seem to be no necessity for the Foreign Secretary or for any other special envoy to come to Washington.

Hull


---
## [d506] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Hinkle ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4612: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , June 8, 1938—4 p.m. [Received 5:15 p.m.]

32. Legation’s 31, June 6, 4 p.m. The Dominican Foreign Minister today stated that the President wished before retiring in August either to modify the convention or failing this to resort to arbitration of the question as to whether paragraph 1 of article 1 and article 3 of the convention are still applicable.

The Minister reiterated the President’s recognition of Dominican obligations to the bondholders and stated that he saw no reason why any points in the proposed law contained in the Dominican note should not be incorporated in a modified convention should this procedure give added protection to the bondholders.

The Minister also said that he hoped to receive from the Legation as soon as possible some general idea of what modification at present would be acceptable to our Government, in order to decide whether he should personally attempt informal conversations in Washington.

Hinkle


---
## [d507] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Hinkle ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4613: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , June 10, 1938—9 a.m. [Received 10:50 a.m.]

33. The President on being informed of contents of Department’s telegram No. 22, June 8, 3 p.m., indicated that he would have a proposal made as soon as possible. He suggested that the Foreign Secretary in drawing up his proposal should consult with Minister Norweb whenever possible.

Hinkle


---
## [d508] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Hinkle ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4616

No. 340 Ciudad Trujillo , June 14, 1938 . [Received June 16.]

Sir : With reference to the Legation’s telegram No. 33 of June 10—9 a.m., reporting President Trujillo as having indicated that he would have a new proposal made as soon as possible regarding the Convention, I have the honor to report that the Dominican Foreign Secretary today said that no instructions have yet been sent to Minister Pastoriza to withdraw the Dominican note. The Foreign Secretary said that he was under the impression that the President could not very well withdraw the note until another Dominican proposal might be accepted. The Foreign Secretary explained that the President felt that before retiring in August he would have to have something concrete to show to the country representing his efforts to modify the Convention. If a proposal could be drawn up by the Dominican Government before then and acceptable for us then it was the President’s idea to withdraw all previous notes on the subject. However, failing successful negotiations the President felt that he would have to publish at least the last two notes.

The Foreign Secretary pointed out that inasmuch as the last Dominican note had not been withdrawn, it seemed as if it was up to us to make a counter-proposal. I pointed out that the President had indicated in our last interview that it was his idea to have a new proposal made as soon as possible. The Dominican Foreign Secretary replied that he understood the President had not yet fully decided on the whole matter and would reach some decision in a few days.

The Foreign Secretary said that he personally felt it would be a mistake to withdraw the notes at present, but that a new proposal might perhaps be made. I pointed out that a withdrawal of both notes would make a much better impression in Washington for future negotiations.

With regard to any modified Convention the Dominican Foreign Secretary was sure that his Government could insist that the President of the Dominican Republic appoint the personnel of the Customs Receivership.

As the President has already suggested, the Foreign Secretary felt that should a proposal be made he would like very much to have the benefit of Minister Norweb’s informal comment before sending it to Washington.

Respectfully yours,

Eugene M. Hinkle


---
## [d509] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Under Secretary of State ( Welles )
839.51/4616½

Washington , July 7, 1938 .

The Dominican Minister called to see me this morning at my request. In accordance with the understanding we had reached on the telephone yesterday I returned to the Minister the two notes which had been sent to the Secretary of State by the Minister in compliance with the instructions which he had received, and in return he handed me back the note which the Secretary of State had addressed to him under date of May 19. See footnote 6, p. 496 . I told the Minister that I thought the best way of handling this withdrawal of notes was in the most informal way possible, to which he agreed. I expressed my satisfaction at the fact that the notes had now been withdrawn by order of President Trujillo, and expressed to him my appreciation of the interest which he personally had taken in bringing about this solution.

I asked the Minister if he had as yet received any instructions from his new Minister of Foreign Affairs Arturo Despradel. with regard to proposals from the Dominican Government for the modification of the 1924 Convention, and the Minister replied that he had not as yet received any instructions. He said, however, that he was urging his Government to do what was possible to expedite the matter so that their views might be placed before this Government. I repeated to him that we would be glad to give immediate consideration to any representations of this character which might be made by his Government.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d510] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Under Secretary of State ( Welles )
839.51/4628

Washington , July 25, 1938 .

The Dominican Minister called to see me this morning and gave me to read two letters addressed to him by his new Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the first letter the Minister was authorized to resume unofficial and personal conversations with the Department of State with a view to ascertaining whether some basis could be found for a satisfactory modification of the 1924 convention. In the second the Minister was requested to ascertain whether the Department of State would be willing to discuss with the Dominican Government the possibility of reaching a basis for a trade agreement. See pp. 503 ff.

With regard to the first point I told the Minister that I should be very happy to talk this problem over with him and that I would set some day the latter part of this week for an initial conversation. With regard to the second, I told the Minister that I would ask some of the appropriate officials of the Trade Agreements Division to have a clarifying conversation with him and that I would be glad to notify him of the arrangements made.

I asked the Minister if he had any information concerning the political situation in the Dominican Republic. He said that he was never sent any information but that his wife was now in his own country and that he hoped when she came back the middle of next month that he would be able to obtain from her some accurate information as to what was going on. He gave me the impression that he sensed a condition of uncertainty in Santo Domingo and that no one was sure just what Trujillo was going to do once the new government was installed.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d511] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4642

No. 438 Ciudad Trujillo , September 8, 1938 . [Received September 12.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that today for the first time the Dominican Foreign Secretary, Mr. Arturo Despradel, intimated to me that he was aware of the conversations which have been quietly in progress in Washington between Mr. Pastoriza and officers of the Department exploring the basis for a possible revision of the Dominican-American Convention of 1924.

Mr. Despradel brought up the matter with the remark that the exchanges of notes in the spring of 1937 had convinced him that some new line of approach was essential. He said he was disposed to regard that phase of the negotiations as a closed chapter and added that he thought the rejoinder of the Dominican Government to the Department’s last proposals of March 22 Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , p. 453 . and April 12, 1937 Not found in Department files. might well be viewed in this light. I observed that I had never seen the rejoinder to which he made reference.

Mr. Despradel said that his Government was by now fully aware of the differences in point of view to be encountered in securing a satisfactory solution of this problem. He said that his Government entertained no hopes of an immediate revision of the Convention but that its policy was one of attempting to examine fundamentally each obstacle to an eventual agreement and to reach an accord piecemeal, point by point, with the Department until the area of difference could be narrowed down until agreement might be really within grasp.

The Foreign Secretary concluded by saying that in the last analysis he thought that an agreement would be difficult so long as the moral responsibility to the bondholders outweighed the question of policy with regard to the continuance of a special treaty relationship. Mr. Despradel said, “these two points of view are like two horses in a race. Just now the horse which represents your Government’s responsibility to the bondholders is ahead. Until the other horse can catch up with it the race will not be very exciting”.

I have the impression from my conversation with the Foreign Secretary that he at least is disposed to a rational approach to the question of revising the 1924 Convention and that his thought as to the method of negotiation is in accord with the Department’s own view as to how the conversations may best be handled.

Respectfully yours,

R. Henry Norweb


---
## [d512] Memorandum of Conversation, by Mr. Selden Chapin of the Division of the American Republics
839.51/4660

Washington , December 13, 1938 .

The Dominican Minister called this morning and in accordance with an arrangement with Mr. Hawkins, Harry C. Hawkins, Chief, Division of Trade Agreements. I took him to see the latter who delivered to him the Department’s memorandum Post , p. 505 . replying to a Dominican memorandum Post , p. 503 . on the proposed trade agreement between the Dominican Republic and the United States. The Minister appeared to be satisfied with such points of the memorandum as Mr. Hawkins outlined to him orally.

Later, the Minister delivered to me the attached clean copies of the Draft Convention and Enabling Act, Not printed. which he said had been made up as a result of further conversations over the weekend in New York City with Mr. Lancaster. William W. Lancaster, member of New York law firm of Shearman and Sterling, counsel of the National City Bank of New York. It will be observed that the Draft Convention incorporates all of the suggestions which were developed during my conversation with the Minister on December 5. Memorandum of this conversation not printed. The Minister inquired, however, whether I felt it would be satisfactory to this Government should the Dominican Government so desire, to incorporate the substance of Article III of the Draft Convention in an exchange of notes. I replied that provided Article II was strengthened, such a procedure might be acceptable. It will also be observed that the new draft Enabling Act is based upon the revision of the draft prepared by Mr. Collado Emilio G. Collado, of the Division of the American Republics. and is now in much more logical order than the original proposal. The new draft seems to me entirely satisfactory since it apparently contains all of Mr. Collado’s suggestions, going in fact beyond those with respect to the setting forth of the bank’s powers and in providing for reserves, allocation of profits, et cetera. A new Article XXXI creates authority for a pension system.

The Minister stated that it would be necessary to arrange by exchange of notes for the retirement of the floating debt and for the transfer of the receivership pension system to the bank.

I reiterated to the Minister in accordance with the instructions of the Under Secretary, that Mr. Welles had had a chance merely to read over the Draft Convention and Enabling Act, but not to give them any profound study. I said that Mr. Welles had asked me to tell him that in his opinion, the Draft Convention and Enabling Act seemed to form a satisfactory basis for future discussions, but that it was to be thoroughly understood that neither this Government nor that of the Dominican Republic was to be considered in any way committed by this draft. Señor Pastoriza said that this was entirely his own understanding.



# CHAPTER [ch25] Preliminary discussions respecting a trade agreement between the United States and the Dominican Republic

---
## [d513] The Dominican Legation to the Department of State Left at the Department on August 24, 1938. This was apparently a copy of a memorandum from the Dominican Foreign Ministry to the Legation.
611.3931/107

undated

[Translation]

Memorandum

His Excellency the President of the Republic has considered the moment propitious for the initiation of conversations Informal conversations had already commenced. at the Department of State with regard to the drawing up of a trade agreement between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America and to that effect has entrusted to me the duty of setting on foot steps to this end through the channel of this Legation.

With this intention you are invited to initiate negotiations as soon as possible, taking into consideration the fundamental bases detailed below and which are to serve you as guidance for the purpose pursued:

Sugar

( a ) Concession on the part of the United States of a quota not less than 150,000 tons per year; ( b ) That, together with the concession of the quota referred to in the foregoing paragraph, the United States modify the tariffs which it applies to Dominican sugar in such manner that the price of this product on the American market become higher than that which is obtained in the free market of London or, at least, that the price be the same.

Market of Puerto Rico

( a ) Concession of greater facilities of entry into Puerto Rico for all Dominican products susceptible of being consumed in that Island by the abolition of all the restrictions which that country now imposes on our products, and ( b ) Very particularly, the obtaining of the entry of our bovine livestock into that country, on the hoof, the Dominican Government undertaking to guarantee the anti-tick bath beforehand as well as other measures necessary which may be requested, such as vaccination against diseases in general.

Various Products

Obtaining a guarantee regarding the maintenance of free entry into the United States or at least of entry on conditions of parity with Cuba of the following articles:

[Here follows list of 71 tariff items.]

Among the ordinary advantages, you should advise the Department of State that the Republic is disposed to maintain for the United States all the benefits which it now derives from the most-favored-nation clause which exists in benefit of the United States in virtue of the modus vivendi of 1924. Exchange of notes signed September 25, 1924, Foreign Relations , 1924, vol. i , pp. 667 – 670 .

Market for Puerto Rico

Beef Goat’s meat Turkeys Maize Coffee Pork Live chickens Hen’s eggs Bananas


---
## [d514] The Department of State to the Dominican Legation Handed to the Dominican Minister by Mr. Harry C. Hawkins, Chief of the Division of Trade Agreements, on December 13.
611.3931/107

Memorandum

The Department of State, deeply gratified to learn that the Government of the Dominican Republic desires to enter into a trade agreement with the Government of the United States, has given the most careful and sympathetic study to the proposals made in the memorandum which the Minister of the Dominican Republic was good enough to leave at the Department on August 24, 1938.

The Department shares the desire of the Dominican Government for a mutually advantageous expansion of the trade between the two countries and welcomes the opportunity to comment upon the Dominican Government’s proposals. If, after further conversations, the two Governments find it possible to agree upon a basis for definitive negotiations and subsequently to conclude a trade agreement, it is felt that the friendly relations between the two countries, to which the Minister has contributed so much, will be further strengthened.

As the commercial policy of the United States is based upon the principle of equality of treatment, the Department notes with pleasure the statement made in the memorandum of August 24 that the Dominican Republic is disposed to maintain for the United States the mostfavored-nation benefits derived from the modus vivendi of 1924. In view of that statement, the Department assumes that the Government of the Republic would be prepared to exchange, in a trade agreement, reciprocal guarantees of unconditional most-favored-nation treatment in respect of all forms of trade and payments control.

In accordance with the policy of extending to all countries which do not discriminate against American commerce the benefits of duty reductions and bindings which have been granted by the United States in its trade agreements, and pursuant to the terms of the modus vivendi of 1924, the benefits of duty reductions on the following products, among those mentioned in the memorandum of August 24, have been extended to the Dominican Republic:

[Here follows table of duty reductions on nine items and list of eight items bound on the free list.]

With reference to the request made in the memorandum of August 24 for parity of tariff treatment with Cuba, it may be pointed out that, in view of the terms of the trade agreement between the United States and Cuba, Signed August 24, 1934, Foreign Relations , 1934, vol. v , p. 169 . under which the advantages provided for in the agreement are made exclusive, it would not be possible for the United States to grant parity of treatment for Dominican products. On the other hand, the Department desires to point out that, in all but a very few cases, the percentage of preference which has been guaranteed to Cuba in the present trade agreement with that country, in respect of products in which the Dominican Republic has expressed an interest, is the same as that provided for in the treaty of commercial reciprocity of December 11, 1902 between the United States and Cuba. Foreign Relations , 1903, p. 375 . In this connection, it may be noted that the public notice of intention to negotiate a supplementary trade agreement with Cuba, issued by the Department of State on November 30, 1938, Department of State, Press Releases , December 3, 1938, p. 398. contained the statement that “no increases in the guaranteed percentages of preference in tariff rates will be made.”

The Government of the United States would, however, be prepared to consider granting to the Dominican Republic, in connection with trade-agreement negotiations, duty reductions or the binding of the existing customs treatment in respect of any of the products mentioned in the memorandum of August 24, or of any other products, of which the Dominican Republic is the principal or an important source of United States imports. The Government of the United States would, of course, expect the Government of the Dominican Republic to give similar consideration in such negotiations to United States products imported into the Republic. With reference to the extent of concessions which might be granted by the United States, it should be noted that, under the authority of the Trade Agreements Act of June 12, 1934, 48 Stat. 943. the President of the United States may not modify any existing rate of duty by more than 50 percent and may not transfer any article between the dutiable and the free lists.

With particular reference to the request that a quota of not less than 150,000 tons per year be granted for the importation of Dominican sugar into the United States, it may be pointed out that it would not be possible to modify, in connection with a trade agreement, the quota treatment now accorded to sugar originating in the Dominican Republic. The basis and method by which import quotas for sugar are determined have been established by the Congress of the United States, and the President has no authority, under the Trade Agreements Act, to modify those quotas.

As the Government of the Dominican Republic is aware, not only imported sugar but sugar produced in the United States is subject to quota limitations as a part of a program designed to restrict the total quantity of sugar marketed in the United States to an amount necessary to meet domestic consumption requirements. The quotas which have been fixed for the various areas, both domestic and foreign, supplying sugar to the United States market are based upon the extent to which these areas have participated in the trade in past years. Any alteration in these shares in order to enlarge the quota of one area would require corresponding reductions in the shares of other areas.

However, it may be observed that the United States has taken steps, within the framework of this system, to increase substantially the sugar quota allotted to the Dominican Republic.

It will be recalled that during the past several years the Philippine Islands have been unable to fill their quota, and under the Jones-Costigan Act of 1934 Approved May 9, 1934; 48 Stat. 670. the unused portion of this quota was reallocated among all other producing areas. Under the Sugar Act of 1937, Approved September 1, 1937; 50 Stat. 903. any unused portion of the Philippine quota was reserved exclusively for foreign countries other than Cuba. That this change is of real benefit to the Dominican Republic is evidenced by the fact that, in 1937, the Dominican quota was increased from 3,334 tons to 32,143 tons as a result of the reallocation of the unused portion of the Philippine quota as well as of the unused portions of the quotas allotted to other foreign countries to which the general rates of United States duties apply. The reallocation to the Dominican Republic of the unused portion of the Philippine quota in 1938 amounted to 7,265 tons. However, 4,677 tons of this amount was forfeited because of the failure to fill the quota by September 1.

Although it would not be possible to modify, in connection with trade-agreement negotiations, the quota treatment now accorded to Dominican sugar, the Government of the United States would be prepared to consider granting to the Dominican Republic in a trade agreement a reduction in the duty on sugar.

With reference to the request made in the memorandum of August 24 for concessions on the importation of certain Dominican products into Puerto Rico alone, it may be pointed out that Puerto Rico is an integral part of the customs territory of the United States and, for this reason, that it would not be possible to consider specific concessions of this nature in connection with trade-agreement negotiations. However, any concessions which might be granted to the Dominican Republic in a trade agreement would be applicable to imports of Dominican products into Puerto Rico as well as into the rest of the customs territory of the United States. Moreover, trade-agreement concessions granted to other countries and extended to the Dominican Republic are also, of course, applicable to Puerto Rican imports of the Dominican products concerned. In this connection, mention may be made of the duty reductions on cattle (paragraph 701 of the Tariff Act of 1930 Approved June 17, 1930; 46 Stat. 590, 631. ) which were granted to Canada in the present trade agreement with that country and in the new trade agreement signed on November 17, 1938 Executive Agreement Series No. 149, or 53 Stat. 2348; see also vol. ii , pp. 164 ff. and provisionally effective on January 1, 1939.

With particular reference to sanitary regulations affecting the importation of livestock into the United States (including Puerto Rico), it is believed that the Government of the Dominican Republic is aware that such regulations are established by the competent technical administrations of the United States Government pursuant to specific provisions of law. Although the Department of State is prepared, of course, to receive such representations or requests for information as the Government of the Republic may wish to make at any time in regard to such matters, it may be pointed out that there is no authority of law by which such regulations might be modified in connection with trade-agreement negotiations.

In commenting upon the proposals which have been made by the Dominican Government, the Department of State has endeavored to clarify the questions raised by those proposals. Motivated by the hope that it may be possible to find a basis for entering into trade agreement negotiations at a reasonably early date, the Department will be very glad to receive the further views of the Dominican Government on the subject.

Washington , December 13, 1938 .



# CHAPTER [ch30] Agreement between the United States and Haiti providing for the partial suspension of debt payments, signed January 13, 1938, and supplementary agreement providing for an extension of the partial moratorium, signed July 1, 1938

---
## [d576] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3516: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , December 22, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 8:46 p.m.]

161. My 160, December 21, 1 p.m. Not printed. As indicated yesterday an important step forward has been taken in the solution of Haiti’s problems. All of these are inter-related with respect to the stability of the Government and the country. The economic situation is basic here in this regard.

Pixley Rex A. Pixley, Deputy Fiscal Representative of Haiti. and his colleagues consider this situation to be verging on the desperate. Until it is substantially remedied the local situation would seem precarious. Everything I hear corroborates this. The second export tax reduction on coffee is being unfortunately retarded apparently through Leger’s Georges Léger, Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Finance. desire not to make any further change in the tax structure during his negotiations for a loan in Paris. His absence at this time is a great handicap. The first tax reduction of one cent per pound was a disappointment because of delay in decision by the Haitian Government. It would be most unfortunate if the same thing occurred again. According to Pixley and others the further reduction seems more hopeful of result if it can be done immediately since the coffee market has been fairly stable for the past 10 days. Indeed local dealers have assured Pixley that a second reduction will begin to move coffee immediately in volume. As the Department realizes this should revitalize trade generally.

Otherwise Pixley and his colleagues see great difficulties if not disaster ahead. This is the period when the Government normally collects the greater part of its revenues for the year. Yet viewing things as optimistically as possible, Pixley believes that revenues for January will not exceed a million and a half gourdes under present conditions when they should be around 3,500,000. The Haitian Government hopes to begin January with a Treasury balance of some 6 to 800,000 gourdes whereas the normal monthly budgetary requirement is 2,800,000 gourdes. Every practicable economy is being sought. Pixley and I feel that it is not politically expedient for the Haitian Government to reduce its expenditures now or in the immediate future commensurate with the great loss in revenue both present and prospective. Pixley requests that this be communicated to De la Rue. Sidney de la Rue, Fiscal Representative of Haiti.

Pixley and I continue to be concerned about the Paris loan negotiations. We cannot help but feel that their success would likely mean either a scandalous arrangement for the persons involved or the acquisition by France of a position in Haiti which would be disadvantageous to us in the Caribbean zone, or both. At the same time we realize the delicacy of this matter, unless offering financial facilities ourselves. We hope that consideration may again be given to this either in the manner suggested in paragraph 4 of my 152, December 14, 3 p.m. Not printed; paragraph 4 reads as follows: “Regarding the Haitian economic situation, is there not some governmental agency, for example the Export-Import Bank, or the Army or Navy, which could contract for the purchase of a sizeable portion of the coffee crop as it becomes available? Something of this sort should be of great encouragement here both financially and in support of the general stability. I have discussed this with Pixley who is in hearty accord with the idea. He as well as I are uncertain as to the practicalities. But in hope something of a similar nature may be practical, we suggest discussion with De la Rue.” (838.00/3383) or otherwise. Could we use the agreement of August 7, 1933, Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. v , p. 755 . to afford a way to the use of the American public funds for Haiti and as a reason for this special action in her favor vis-à-vis certain other countries in Latin America which may also be in financial difficulties but which are not in the same strategic Caribbean position?

Mayer


---
## [d577] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3516: Telegram

Washington , December 24, 1937—1 p.m.

82. Your 161, December 22, 1 p.m. The Department can well appreciate your concern and that of Pixley at the serious condition of Haitian finances aggravated by the delay in the authorization of a further detax on coffee exports pending the final outcome of Léger’s negotiations in Paris.

The Department’s reluctance to take any steps which might be interpreted as intervention in the domestic affairs of another American Republic is strengthened in this case by its desire to avoid any action which might later be seized upon as an excuse for the allegation that the attitude or acts of this Government were responsible for the collapse of negotiations for a foreign loan for Haiti.

Nevertheless, having in mind its responsibilities towards the bondholders of the 1922 loan Loan contract of October 6, 1922, between the Republic of Haiti and the National City Company and the National City Bank, both of New York; for text, see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , October 30, 1922; for correspondence relating to the loan, see Foreign Relations , 1922, vol. ii , pp. 472 ff. and more specifically the terms of Article XV of the accord of August 7, 1933, the Department believes that the Acting Fiscal Representative may wish in his own capacity to seek an immediate interview with President Vincent and lay before him as forcefully and clearly as possible the facts and figures of the existing financial situation and the immediate implications thereof.

He may also wish to urge upon the President the necessity for taking the initiative in an immediate general survey of the general tax and budgetary situation with a view to providing additional revenues to replace the yield lost from such detax as may be necessary to start coffee moving and to effecting such economies as may be possible in the more unessential governmental services. In this connection the Department understands that de la Rue, who believes that there is slight possibility of Léger obtaining a loan in Paris, feels that he now should be instructed by the President to return to Haiti to undertake the necessary studies in connection with financial readjustment.

De la Rue is apprehensive that if the situation is allowed to drift, the financial structure of Haiti may be so badly damaged as to result in a complete moratorium. On the other hand, he feels that if salutary measures could be inaugurated immediately it might be possible for Haiti to maintain its debt service as to interest but with a retarded schedule of amortization which would liquidate the loan by its original contract debt of 1952–53.

While the Department shares de la Rue’s views, it obviously cannot suggest to the President any course of action, although it would appear proper for you, in response to an inquiry from the President with regard to financial policy to reinforce such observations as Pixley may make to President Vincent.

If the President desires de la Rue to return, he should be informed at once by telegraph. If he is notified by tomorrow it will be possible for him to reach Port-au-Prince by Sunday by plane.

Hull


---
## [d578] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3519: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , December 27, 1937—noon . [Received 1:24 p.m.]

167. Department’s 82, December 24, 1 p.m. We fully understand and share the Department’s point of view as expressed in paragraph 2. We keep this continually in mind in our dealing with this matter.

Meanwhile Pixley and I have been in constant touch working toward the end in view. In a conversation with President Vincent yesterday Pixley felt that he had made considerable progress in bringing the whole matter forefully and clearly to President Vincent’s mind. Pixley was hopeful that the President was finally beginning to appreciate the illusory nature of Leger’s mission and the necessity for immediate constructive action here. At the same time Pixley and I both feel that the question of effecting economies in governmental expenditure and the imposition of new taxes is a very delicate matter at this period of political uncertainty. As the Department understands the several factors in the whole picture here in Haiti are so inter-related that it appears necessary [apparent omission] with the greatest caution with respect to any one of these factors so that the whole structure may not collapse.

In all the circumstances I heartily concur in De la Rue’s desire to return at once to Haiti. As De la Rue has no doubt informed the Department, President Vincent approved this idea and De la Rue expects to arrive here Wednesday. If he were to return to the United States he will have additional up to date local background to assist him in whatever steps are necessary.

In his conversations with President Vincent, Pixley found him so cooperative that it did not appear necessary for me to participate.

Mayer


---
## [d579] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3525

No. 9 Washington , December 30, 1937 .

Sir : The Department refers to its telegram no. 182 [ 82 ] of December 24, 1 p.m., and to your telegram in reply no. 167 of December 27, 12, noon, regarding the difficult financial situation in Haiti.

In the course of recent conversations between officers of the Department and the Fiscal Representative, Mr. Sidney de la Rue, this situation was discussed at length. The Department is in agreement with the Fiscal Representative’s opinion that it is now evident that the Haitian Government will in fact be unable to maintain the complete contractual service on the two remaining series of the 1922 loan if the essential services of government are to be maintained in Haiti. The Department believes that the best ultimate protection for the bondholders is the maintenance of such orderly government in Haiti. The Department believes, furthermore, that in view of the fact that the amortization schedule of the 1922 loans had been advanced to a point where the loan in normal circumstances would have been retired in 1943, or approximately nine years before its contractual due date, that the most equitable arrangement for the bondholders would be a temporary partial default in the present amortization schedule.

Accordingly, efforts have been directed towards the elaboration of a plan which would permit Haiti to make such a default with the least temporary dislocation of the existing financial structure, with the least prejudice to the rights of the bondholders, and with the least damage to the financial credit of the Haitian Government. There is enclosed a copy of a memorandum of December 30, which contains the substance of the views of the Department in this matter, and which suggests a procedure for effecting the proposed default in contractual amortization. There is also enclosed a draft of a proposed Accord Not attached to file copy of this document. to be signed by you and a plenipotentiary to be designated by the Haitian Government, modifying for the balance of the current fiscal year the Accord of August 7, 1933.

Mr. de la Rue is thoroughly familiar with the Department’s views on the prospective default in amortization and has assured the Department of his readiness to cooperate by assisting the Haitian Government in drafting the proposed basic note mentioned on page three of the enclosed memorandum. In view of the urgency of the matter, since it seems unlikely from Mr. de la Rue’s statements, that the Government of Haiti will be able to meet the amortization installment due January 15 and still conserve enough cash in the Treasury to meet its budgetary payroll at the end of January, the need for prompt action is apparent. You are authorized, accordingly, to enter immediately into such conversations as may be initiated by the appropriate officials of the Haitian Government in order to reach agreement on the text of the notes to be exchanged and the Accord to be signed.

There is also enclosed a copy of a memorandum of December 29, Not printed. from the Legal Adviser’s office of the Department relative to the effect of the signature of the proposed new Accord upon the responsibility of the Fiscal Representative as respects the bondholders in the event of the signature of the proposed Accord. As you will note, the suggested additional paragraphs contained in this memorandum have already been incorporated in the memorandum of December 30. This memorandum also contains an opinion with respect to the responsibility of the Fiscal Agent under the loan contract should the Haitian Government default wholly or in part on its amortization payments.

Please forward as soon as possible by air mail the text of the proposed Haitian note. In the event that the text appears to be substantially satisfactory the Department will notify you by cable of such changes if any as may seem desirable and will authorize you to sign the agreement.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles

[Enclosure] Memorandum by Mr. Selden Chapin of the Division of the American Republics to the Under Secretary of State ( Welles ) [ Washington ,] December 30, 1937 . Mr. Welles : With reference to RA’s Division of the American Republics. memorandum of December 22, Not found in Department files. it has, unfortunately, become increasingly evident that due to the grave financial situation in Haiti, the Haitian Government will in fact be unable to maintain the complete contractual service on the two remaining series of the 1922 loan and will be obliged to default temporarily on at least part of the contractual amortization payments of the loan. Sufficient funds to pay interest up through the April 15 coupon are already in the hands of the Fiscal Agent, the National City Bank of New York, New York City. The three contractual amortization payments on the A and C series were made for October, November and December, 1937, a total of $296,250 on the A loan, and a total of $49,043.76 on the C loan, being a grand total of $345,293.76. This would leave outstanding in round sums, including both A and C series, approximately $8,000,000. The series B loan was retired early in 1937. Mr. de la Rue states, however, that it is probable that if the January amortization installment is paid over on its due date, January 15, 1938, that there will not be sufficient funds to meet all the salaries and current expenses set forth in the budget of expenditures for the maintenance of the essential services of government in Haiti. He anticipates, therefore, a demand by the Haitian President that a reduction in debt service be made and that that reduction be made effective in advance of the January 15th payment. At a meeting Tuesday afternoon with Mr. Welles, Mr. Duggan, Laurence Duggan, Chief of the Division of the American Republics. Mr. Chapin, and Mr. de la Rue, Mr. Welles stated, after hearing Mr. de la Rue’s exposition on the situation, that it was obvious that the best ultimate protection for the bondholders was the maintenance of orderly government in Haiti. This in turn is predicated upon the continuation and functioning of the essential services. He said, therefore, that he believed that we should be prepared to accept the situation and to concur in a default in amortization for the remainder of the current Haitian fiscal year, the situation to be reexamined prior to the expiration of that period. Several important considerations were raised and discussed at the meeting with regard to the form that this default should take. It was decided that whatever steps are taken to meet the existing and presumably temporary emergency should be so arranged that the existing financial structure would be disturbed as little as possible with a view to a return to the present arrangements at the earliest permissible date. The legal position of the Fiscal Representative and his office under the accord of August 7, 1933, particularly articles 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, and 17, as well as under the loan agreements, was also discussed. The following procedure was tentatively agreed upon: The Haitian Government will present a note to the American Legation in Port-au-Prince outlining the difficult financial situation which Haiti now faces, due to forces beyond its control, and substantiating this statement presumably with a factual memorandum on the economic and financial situation from the office of the Fiscal Representative. The Haitian Government in this note would ask for recognition of the existing emergency and call attention to the fact that in the circumstances in order to maintain the essential government services, without which there might result political and financial chaos, it had no alternative but to default on a portion of the amortization service. The Haitian Government would reaffirm its intentions of honoring strictly all its financial obligations and its desire to maintain its credit standing. The Haitian Government would state its intention to continue to pay the interest on all outstanding bonds in full and, as a token of its intention to honor its obligations in full, would continue, moreover, to make small regular payments to the sinking fund. The amount of these token payments will be determined in the note from the estimates submitted by Mr. de la Rue upon his return to Haiti. The note would suggest, therefore, the conclusion of a further agreement, or accord, effective for the balance of the current fiscal year which would contain the necessary provisions to permit the payment only of interest and a small amount for amortization, and which would suspend for the remaining part of the current fiscal year all provisions of the Accord of August 7, 1933, which are inconsistent with the new agreement. In as much as certain duties and obligations of the Fiscal Representative are fixed by the provisions of Articles VI and IX of the Loan Contracts, the Haitian Government should state in the note that it will bring about a suspension for the balance of the current fiscal year of the obligations of the Fiscal Representative under such articles and instead thereof authorize for the corresponding period the Fiscal Representative to set aside from the hypothecated revenues the sums required to be remitted for the payment of interest on the bonds and for a small token payment into the sinking fund and to remit the same to the Fiscal Agent at the times and in the manner provided in the loan contracts and in the bonds. The Haitian Government in its note would undertake, moreover, to guarantee that there would be no increase in salaries or allowances paid to Haitian Government officials and employees during the period of the default in amortization. The Haitian Government would also undertake that in the event of a substantial increase of revenues, no increase in the ordinary or general budget would be authorized until the contractual amortization payment service had been resumed in full. It would further undertake that extraordinary appropriations outside of the general budget should be restricted to emergencies duly recognized as such in accord with the Fiscal Representative during this period. In acknowledging the note, the American Minister would inform the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs that pursuant to instructions from his Government he was prepared to accept the draft of the agreement suggested by the Haitian Government and to sign this agreement without delay. The Minister would likewise in his reply to the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs state that his Government took due note of the intention of the Haitian Government to suspend for the balance of the current fiscal year the obligations of the Fiscal Representative under Articles VI and IX of the Loan Contracts of 1922, and instead thereof to authorize him to set aside from the hypothecated revenues the sums required to be remitted for the payment of interest on the bonds and for a small token payment into the sinking fund, and to remit the same to the Fiscal Agent at the times and in the manner provided in the Loan Agreements and in the bonds. In view of the impending arrival in the United States on his return to Haiti of M. Georges Léger, Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Finance, it is possible that his services may be utilized by the Haitian Government in approaching the National City Bank of New York as fiscal agents for the loan with this plan. Should the Fiscal Agent concur in substance with the request of the Haitian Government, it may be possible further that with the assistance of Mr. W. W. Lancaster of General Counsel for the National City Bank, Mr. Léger may then approach the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council to lay before them the difficult financial situation of Haiti and the procedure envisaged by the Haitian Government along lines generally set forth in the memorandum above. S[ elden ] C[ hapin ]


---
## [d580] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3532: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 8, 1938—5 p.m. [Received 9:45 p.m.]

6. Department’s mail instruction No. 9, December 30. De la Rue suggests redrafting of the proposed accord as follows: First. Article I of the proposed accord should, he thinks, set aside to the credit of the Fiscal Representative the amounts now set aside preferentially for the expenses of the internal revenue service and the internal revenue inspection service. Second. The suspension by article II of the proposed accord of article XVI of the Agreement of 1933 also should, he thinks, be so worded as surely to suspend also the sentence which reads “the balance may be apportioned by the Haitian Government between the budgets of the various departments as it may see fit.” Third. Provision should also be made, De la Rue thinks, for setting aside preferentially the monthly allocation to the Garde.

In addition, De la Rue inquires whether, in the Department’s opinion, specific reference should be made in the proposed accord to the provisions of the second sentence of the second paragraph of page 5 See p. 580 , sentence reading as follows: “The Haitian Government would also undertake that in the event of a substantial increase of revenues, no increase in the ordinary or general budget would be authorized until the contractual amortization payment service had been resumed in full.” of the memorandum dated December 30, or whether it will be sufficient to have these undertakings by the Haitian Government set forth in its note.

Mayer


---
## [d581] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3532: Telegram

Washington , January 10, 1938—7 p.m.

4. Your 6, January 8, 5 p.m. In drafting the proposed accord the Department was guided by a desire to disturb the existing financial structure as little as possible and hence wished to limit to a minimum any changes in the stipulations of the accord of August 7, 1933, which might have to be suspended only for the balance of the current fiscal year.

More specifically the Department has the following observations with respect to the points now raised by de la Rue.

First and Third: Comparison of the language of Article I of the proposed accord with the first sentence of Article XI of the Accord of August 7, should show that the second and third sentences of this last named article remain in force and are not suspended. If in your opinion, you deem it advisable, you are authorized to insert for the purposes of clarity, the words “the first sentence of Article XI and the first and last sentences of Article XVI” instead of the words “Articles XI and XVI” in the first line of Article II of the proposed accord. Second: The Department does not believe that it could properly suspend the second sentence of Article XVI since such a suspension would seem to take away from the Haitian Government the right to draw up its own budget. The Department would be gratified however, if the Haitian Government in its note should along with its undertakings state it will so apportion the balance between the budgets of the various departments as to assure the maintenance of the essential services of government.

In the opinion of the Department, it will be sufficient if the other undertakings by the Haitian Government mentioned in the second paragraph on page 5 of RA’s memorandum of December 30, 1937, are set forth in the proposed Haitian note.

Hull


---
## [d582] The Haitian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Alfred ) to the American Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) Transmitted to the Department by the Minister in Haiti in his despatch No. 37, January 14; received January 15. Also read over the telephone to the Department on the morning of January 12.
838.51/3543

[Translation]

Port-au-Prince , January 11, 1938 .

Mr. Minister : My Government desires to submit to the kind attention of your Government the following facts:

Because of the recent measures taken by the Brazilian Government, reducing the export duties on coffee and decreeing freedom of exchange with regard to the sales of this product, such a weakening in the price of coffee in world markets has been produced that the Haitian economy, strictly dependent upon outlets for this article has been profoundly affected.

The exporters, in view of the low level of the price of coffee, have not been able to offer to the producers a sufficiently attractive price in order to get them to sell their product; the purchasing power of the Haitian people which is based on foreign money coming into the country through the sale of coffee, has been reduced to such a point that the national commerce is languishing in the most distressing stagnation we have ever known, and imports have diminished in considerable proportion.

In order to meet this disastrous situation and create an outlet for coffee, the Government under date of November 27, 1937, issued an order taking off ten centimes of customs duties from exported coffee. Unhappily, despite this sacrifice to which the Government consented, a new variation in price frustrating our efforts has not permitted exporters to offer the peasant fifteen centimes of the gourde per pound, which the peasant considers the minimum required in order that he may undertake to deliver his product, and although small quantities have been shipped, it nevertheless remains that coffee is not being marketed in a manner which can, in any way, be considered as normal.

Meanwhile the receipts have turned almost vertically downward. The Government in order to meet its obligations has had to make use of available resources in the Treasury. Besides, after a careful examination of the situation of the market the Government has come to the conclusion that only an additional detax of five centimes of the Gourde per kilo will enable the marketing of our principal product, and in consequence has decided to issue a decree to this end.

Moreover, the last reports that have been received indicate that by reason of excessive rain during the last three months, the volume of the coffee crop will be considerably less than had been estimated when the ways and means for the fiscal year had been evaluated.

As a consequence of what has preceded, the Office of the Fiscal Representative estimates that export customs duties taking into consideration the detax of 15 cents per kilo mentioned above will be Gdes. 4,129,000.00 less than the amount the ways and means of which had been foreseen in the budget of 1937–38.

The Government on November 11, 1937, increased by ten per cent the amount of its import duties. But even this measure has not had the effect of permitting the treasury to cover its losses resulting from the decrease in coffee prices and the impossibility of finding a market for it. The Bureau of the Fiscal Representative estimates that both because of the decrease in revenues derived from export taxes and because of the smaller value of imports due to the diminishing of the purchasing power of the Haitian people the total revenues of the Government in 1937–1938 will amount to Gdes. 28,690,000.

On the other hand, the budgetary credit opened to the different ministerial departments amounts to Gdes. 32,936,000. The Government by reason of exceptional and urgent circumstances such as the recent international incidents between the Dominican Government and the Republic of Haiti, See pp. 178 ff. has had to use special credits amounting to Gdes. 127,000, and has authorized an over expenditure of Gdes. 80,000 per month for the Haitian Guard.

To sum up, the Government cannot look forward to obtaining in the course of the present year more than Gdes. 28,690,000 and it has to face expenditures amounting to Gdes. 34,023,000. The Government has desired to put into effect large economies by a radical tightening of the budget, but unhappily even these restrictions will not permit the public treasury to cover the deficit mentioned above and maintain the essential service of the Government of which the importance for the preservation of a stable political and economic situation is easily understood.

There only remains to the Government in these circumstances the alternative of suppressing administrative services essential to public order and economic stability or of asking the American Government to be good enough once more to prove the friendly spirit which it has always shown toward the Republic of Haiti and not to oppose a partial suspension of the amortization of the loan of 1922 during the present fiscal year.

The Haitian Government which has always met all of its international engagements desires here to renew in the most formal manner its most firm decision to honor its signature to satisfy all of its financial obligations and to preserve its credit intact.

Therefore, in the case that your Government, taking into account the good faith of the Haitian Government and the difficult circumstances which put it under the necessity of making this démarche , would be good enough to acquiesce in the above request, the Haitian Government even under the pressure of the great present difficulties agrees to pay regularly the interest on all the outstanding bonds, and as a token of its firm will to honor its signature agrees to make a payment of Gdes. 9.555.55 per month on account of the amortization of the bonds of Series A and Gdes. 1.555.55 on account of the amortization of the loan of Series C during the rest of the present fiscal year.

Inasmuch as certain duties and obligations of the Fiscal Representative are fixed by the provisions of Articles VI and IX of the loan contracts, the Haitian Government obligates itself to bring about the suspension, for the balance of the current fiscal year, of the obligations of the Fiscal Representative under said articles, to the extent necessary, and instead thereof, will authorize for the corresponding period the Fiscal Representative to set aside from the hypothecated revenues the sums required to be remitted for the payment of interest on the said outstanding bonds, as well as for the small token payment into the sinking fund, and to remit the same to the Fiscal Agent at the times and in the manner provided in the loan contracts and in the bonds for the remitting of interest and sinking fund payments.

During the period January 1–September 30, 1938, the Haitian Government undertakes also to guarantee that there shall be no increase in salaries or allowances paid to Haitian Government officials and employees.

The Haitian Government further undertakes that in the event of a substantial increase of revenues, no increase in the ordinary or general budget will be made until the contractual amortization payment service has been resumed in full.

The Haitian Government further undertakes that extraordinary appropriations outside of the general budget would be restricted to emergencies, duly recognized as such in accord with the Fiscal Representative, during the period of the default.

The Haitian Government agrees that the balance foreseen by the provisions of Article XVI of the Accord of August 7, 1933, to be apportioned by the Haitian Government between the budgets of the various departments, shall be so apportioned between the various departments of the Government as to assure the maintenance of the essential services of the Government.

The Haitian Government declares by these presents its readiness to sign an accord with the American Government as follows: Accord The undersigned plenipotentiaries, duly authorized by their respective governments, have agreed upon the following Accord: Article I On and after January 1, 1938, and until and including September 30, 1938, all monies received by or for the Haitian Government shall be deposited in the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti to the credit of the Haitian Government with the exception of the five per centum of customs revenues foreseen in Article IX of the Accord of August 7, 1933, and the amounts needed for payments connected with execution of Loan Contracts which payments during the period mentioned shall consist of the amounts necessary to pay the interest on all outstanding bonds issued under the Loan Contracts of October 6, 1922, and May 26, 1925, and $ . . . . . . on account of the amounts required to be paid under such Loan Contracts for the amortization of the bonds, which amounts shall be credited to the Fiscal Representative. Article II The provisions of the first sentence of Article XI and the first and last sentences of Article XVI of the Accord of August 7, 1933, to the extent and only to the extent that they may be inconsistent with the provisions of Article I of this Accord, shall be suspended so long as this Accord remains in effect. Signed at Port-au-Prince, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . 1938.

Léon Alfred


---
## [d583] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3533: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 11, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:25 p.m.]

11. Referring to Department’s instruction No. 9, December 30, de la Rue requests following be transmitted: “Whatever amounts are not required for interest on outstanding bonds automatically increases the amount available for sinking fund. Consequently from the contractual monthly payments it is extremely difficult to determine in advance a percentum of the amounts required for sinking fund. Therefore, we suggest that the third from the last line of article I of the proposed accord be changed by striking out ‘percentum’ and in place thereof we be authorized to insert ‘and blank dollars on account’.”

Mayer


---
## [d584] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3525: Telegram

Washington , January 11, 1938—6 p.m.

5. Department’s mail instruction number 9 of December 30 and your letter to Duggan January 4. Latter not found in Department files. While Department appreciates your point of view with respect to the desirability that Lescot Elie Lescot, Haitian Minister in the United States. and de la Rue should make representations to the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, the possible danger that Leger might attempt to throw the blame for the Haitian default in amortization on to this Government seems out-weighed by the desirability that the Council should be approached before actual default occurs on January 15. Accordingly, the Department has decided to approach M. Leger on his arrival in Washington tomorrow or the next day and to suggest to him that in company with Mr. Lancaster of the National City Bank, the local agent for the loan, he should advise the Council of the impending default and lay before the Council a brief memorandum of the factors necessitating this action by the Haitian Government.

In the event that the draft note referred to in Department’s instruction number 9 and including a statement understood to be prepared by Mr. de la Rue of the circumstances leading up to the default, has not yet been forwarded to the Department, the Department desires you to request Mr. de la Rue to prepare as brief a summary as possible which might be cabled to the Department for delivery to M. Leger to form a basis for his more amplified statement to the Council.

Hull


---
## [d585] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3534: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 11, 1938—8 p.m. [Received 8:33 p.m.]

12. The Department’s mail instruction No. 9, December 30. The Haitian Government’s note which had been preliminarily submitted to me by De la Rue this afternoon has now been received. De la Rue and I consider that it covers adequately the requirements set forth in RA memorandum of December 30 since it coincides almost verbatim with its suggestions. The text of the accord is identical with that transmitted by the Department except for the changes authorized by the Department’s telegram No. 4, January 10, 7 p.m. and the change requested in my telegram No. 11, January 11, 1 p.m.

De la Rue states that in order to prevent disruption of essential Haitian Government services the exchange of notes and the accord should be effected and his office notified by Thursday morning, January 13. There is no air mail until Friday. Does the Department desire text of the note and accord be telegraphed or will the Department authorize reply to note and signature of accord on the basis of this telegram? Please rush instructions.

Mayer


---
## [d586] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3535: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 12, 1938—10 a.m. [Received 12:05 p.m.]

13. Department’s telegram No. 5, January 11, 6 p.m. De la Rue states that he sent a long personal letter to Leger in care of the Haitian Consul, New York, and the Haitian Legation at Washington on January 8 which, he feels, when examined with the financial statement, et cetera, which he enclosed, will give Leger all the material he needs. The situation since January 8 has borne out his estimates as of that date. If, after Leger has conversed with the Under Secretary, he has need of additional data, de la Rue stands ready to furnish it by telegraph.

Mayer


---
## [d587] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3537: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 12, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 4:17 p.m.]

16. De la Rue requests the following sent to the Under Secretary: “We have not the funds in bank nor any assurance that funds will become available during the balance of this month sufficient to permit salaries to be paid Government employees and the Garde allocation made on February 1, next. In order to avoid unilateral action which Government to date has not suggested but which the emergency in my opinion otherwise might cause them to suggest, it is necessary that the accord be approved and signed and that a law be thereafter voted by Permanent Legislative Committee which will authorize this office not to transfer contractual sinking fund payment already set aside for January 15. If this amount is not transferred and can be used to supplement receipts we believe we will be able to meet salaries and Garde payments. Legally we must transfer it unless otherwise authorized in time to have law voted and promulgated. Urgently recommend that signature of accord be authorized and that Leger make his explanations immediately to the Protective Council but that these two matters be separated so that we may proceed here without delay which otherwise would be unavoidable. We are unable to give figures on budget and tax structure changes which are in process of formation although we have been working day and night in full accord with Cabinet and Permanent Legislative Council, but this work is not completed and cannot be completed much before tomorrow night. Consequently new reports and estimates cannot be made available in detail for purposes of Protective Council until next week. Under these conditions Leger can do nothing more than advise them of the emergency and of the principles incorporated in Haitian note and proposed accord.”

Mayer


---
## [d588] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3538: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , January 12, 1938—6 p.m. [Received 8:20 p.m.]

17. Referring to my telephone conversation this morning with regard to the note to be delivered to the Haitian Government in reply to its note of January 11, 1938, I submit herewith the draft of the proposed reply: “Excellency, I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency’s note dated January 11, 1938, describing the financial difficulties which are being experienced by the Haitian Government, due you state, in large part to the recent abrupt decline of coffee prices in the world markets, the measures the Haitian Government has taken in the hope of overcoming these difficulties, and stating that in spite of these efforts the Haitian Government will not be able during the period January 1–September 30, 1938, inclusive, to maintain the essential services of the Government and, simultaneously, the full amortization service on the outstanding bonds of the loan of 1922.”

Here follows a repetition of the Haitian Government’s note of January 11, 1938, repeated to you over the telephone this morning beginning with “to sum up, the Government can not look forward to obtaining in the course of the present year” and continuing to the end of the note including the proposed accord in the English text.

In conclusion my reply would say: “Pursuant to instructions which I have received from the Secretary of State I now have the honor to inform Your Excellency that I am authorized to sign this accord on behalf of the Government of the United States. I await, therefore, an indication of Your Excellency’s pleasure as to the time and place for signing the proposed accord. Accept, Excellency, et cetera.”

Mayer


---
## [d589] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3537: Telegram

Washington , January 12, 1938—8 p.m.

7. From the Under Secretary. Please inform Mr. de la Rue that I am appreciative of his desire that a law be voted as soon as possible by the permanent legislative committee authorizing his office not to transfer the contractual sinking fund payment already set aside for January 15. It has seemed to me desirable however that the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council be advised in advance of signature of the accord of the proposal to suspend sinking fund payments except for the token payments. This organization was established on the initiative of this Government in order to be helpful in situations similar to that now confronting Haiti. See Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. i , pp. 934 ff. The Department upon learning of prospective defaults either in whole or in part on debt service by foreign governmental entities has, since the formation of the Council, expressed the hope to these governmental entities that they will discuss their proposals with the Council prior to taking action in order that the Council may give such advice as it sees fit in the interest of bondholders. Moreover, in the case of Haiti this Department has particular responsibilities to the bondholders which makes it particularly desirable that the Council be consulted in advance of the prospective action that the Haitian Government desires to take.

I am advised that the Minister of Finance will consult with the Council tomorrow, and, I am hopeful that by tomorrow afternoon I shall be in a position to authorize the exchange of notes and the signature of the new accord. [Welles.]

Hull


---
## [d590] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3541a: Telegram

Washington , January 13, 1938—6 p.m.

8. M. Léger explained to White, Francis White, Executive Secretary and Vice-President of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inc. of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, the proposed accord and the reasons necessitating it. White expressed deep appreciation for the courtesy of the Haitian Government in consulting the Council and is going to recommend to the Board of Directors of the Council that it issue a statement supporting the plan before the bondholders. If the Board approves, this statement will be issued on Thursday. In as much as it will not be possible for the Department to issue the precise text of the exchange of notes and the accord to the press until Tuesday, and in view of the helpful attitude which the Council has taken and of its desire that release of the documents not be made until Thursday, it is hoped that the Haitian Government will be agreeable to postponing the release until that time.

You are authorized to reply to the Haitian note as set forth in your telegram no. 17, January 12, 6 p.m., and to sign the accord at once.

Hull


---
## [d591] The American Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Haitian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Alfred ) Copy transmitted to the Department by the Minister in Haiti in his despatch No. 37, January 14; received January 15.
838.51/3543

No. 13 Port-au-Prince , January 13, 1938 .

Excellency : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency’s note dated January 11, 1938, describing the financial difficulties which are being experienced by the Haitian Government, due, you state, in large part to the abrupt recent decline of coffee prices in the world markets, the measures the Haitian Government has taken in the hope of overcoming these difficulties, and stating that in spite of these efforts the Haitian Government will not be able during the period January 1–September 30, 1938, inclusive to maintain the essential services of the Government and, simultaneously, the full amortization service on the outstanding bonds of the loan of 1922. In brief, the Haitian Government affirms that it cannot expect to receive more than Gdes. 28,690,000 during the balance of the year and must provide for expenditures amounting to Gdes. 34,023,000.

The Government further states that it has desired to put into effect large economies by a radical tightening of the budget, but that unhappily even these restrictions will not permit the public treasury to cover the deficit mentioned above and maintain the essential service of the Government of which the importance for the preservation of a stable political and economical situation is easily understood.

There only remains, according to Your Excellency’s Government, in these circumstances, the alternative of suppressing administrative services essential to public order and economic stability or of asking the American Government to be good enough once more to prove the friendly spirit which it has always shown toward the Republic of Haiti and not to oppose a partial suspension of the amortization of the loan of 1922 during the present fiscal year.

The Haitian Government’s note of January 11th further states that having always met all of its international engagements, it desires to renew in this note in the most formal manner its most firm decision to honor its signature, to satisfy all of its financial obligations and to preserve its credit intact.

The Haitian Government adds that, therefore, in the case that my Government, taking into account the good faith of the Haitian Government and the difficult circumstances which put it under the necessity of making this démarche , would be good enough to acquiesce in the above request, the Haitian Government, even under the pressure of the great present difficulties, agrees to pay regularly the interest on all the outstanding bonds, and as a token of its firm will to honor its signature agrees to make a payment of Gdes. 9,555.55 per month on account of the amortization of the bonds of Series A, and Gdes. 1,555.55 on account of the amortization of the loan of Series C during the rest of the present fiscal year.

Your Excellency’s note of January 11th continues that inasmuch as certain duties and obligations of the Fiscal Representative are fixed by the provisions of Articles VI and IX of the loan contracts, the Haitian Government obligates itself to bring about the suspension, for the balance of the current fiscal year, of the obligations of the Fiscal Representative under said Articles, to the extent necessary, and instead thereof will authorize for the corresponding period the Fiscal Representative to set aside from the hypothecated revenues the sums required to be remitted for the payment of interest on the said outstanding bonds, as well as for the small token payment into the sinking fund, and to remit the same to the Fiscal Agent at the times and in the manner provided in the loan contracts and in the bonds for the remitting of interest and sinking fund payments.

Furthermore, during the period January 1–September 30, 1938, the Haitian Government, in its note of January 11th under acknowledgment, undertakes also to guarantee that there shall be no increase in salaries or allowances paid to Haitian Government officials and employees.

The Haitian Government further undertakes, in the note above referred to, that in the event of a substantial increase of revenues, no increase in the ordinary or general budget will be made until the contractual amortization payment service has been resumed in full.

The Haitian Government further undertakes, in the note of January 11th, that extraordinary appropriations outside of the general budget would be restricted to emergencies, duly recognized as such in accord with the Fiscal Representative, during the period of the default.

In its note of January 11th, the Haitian Government further agrees that the balance foreseen by the provisions of Article XVI of the Accord of August 7, 1933, to be apportioned by the Haitian Government between the budgets of the various departments, shall be so apportioned between the various departments of the Government as to assure the maintenance of the essential services of the Government.

The Haitian Government finally declares by these presents its readiness to sign an accord with the American Government as follows: Accord The undersigned plenipotentiaries, duly authorized by their respective governments, have agreed upon the following Accord: Article I On and after January 1, 1938, and until and including September 30, 1938, all moneys received by or for the Haitian Government shall be deposited in the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti to the credit of the Haitian Government with the exception of the five per centum of customs revenues foreseen in Article IX of the Accord of August 7, 1933, and the amounts needed for payments connected with execution of the Loan Contracts which payments during the period mentioned shall consist of the amounts necessary to pay the interest on all outstanding bonds issued under the Loan Contracts of October 6, 1922, and May 26, 1925, and $20,000 on account of the amounts required to be paid under such Loan Contracts for the amortization of the bonds, which amounts shall be credited to the Fiscal Representative. Article II The provisions of the first sentence of Article XI and the first and last sentences of Article XVI of the Accord of August 7, 1933, to the extent and only to the extent that they may be inconsistent with the provisions of Article I of this Accord, shall be suspended so long as this Accord remains in effect. Signed at Port-au-Prince, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this . . . . . day of . . . . . . . nineteen hundred and . . . . . . . . .

Your Excellency was good enough to transmit with your note under acknowledgement the following documents: (1) A letter from the Fiscal Representative to the President of the Republic, dated January 7, 1938, Not printed. describing the coffee situation. (2) A letter of the Fiscal Representative to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and for Finance a. i ., dated January 11, 1938, Not printed. describing the financial situation.

Pursuant to instructions which I have received from the Secretary of State, I now have the honor to inform Your Excellency that I am authorized to sign this Accord on behalf of the Government of the United States. I await, therefore, an indication of Your Excellency’s pleasure as to the time and place for signing the proposed Accord.

Accept [etc.]

Ferdinand L. Mayer

[For the text of the agreement between the United States and Haiti modifying the agreement of August 7, 1933, signed at Port-au-Prince on January 13, 1938, see Executive Agreement Series No. 117, or 52 Stat. 1473. The text of the accord as printed in these sources is identical with the draft included in the document printed supra .]


---
## [d592] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3584

No. 139 Port-au-Prince , April 21, 1938 . [Received April 25.]

Sir : Referring to my despatch No. 138 of April 20, 1938 Not printed. in which among other things the Legation reported that the Fiscal Representative had been instructed by the Haitian Government to proceed to the United States for certain purposes among which was the inauguration of preliminary conversations with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council with a view to a new accord on the external loan, I have the honor to transmit herewith enclosed an office copy and translation of the instructions to the above effect which the Minister for Finance wrote to Mr. de la Rue under date of April 19, 1938.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer

[Enclosure—Translation] The Haitian Minister for Finance ( Léger ) to the Fiscal Representative of Haiti ( De la Rue ) Port-au-Prince , April 19, 1938 . Mr. Fiscal Representative : It is becoming evident that it is no longer possible to hope that in the immediate future there will be an appreciable improvement in the economic and financial situation of the Republic of Haiti. On the contrary, it is to be anticipated that the present low price of coffee will persist, at least during next year, and that in consequence the receipts from its exportation will be approximately the same for the next as for the current budget. In these circumstances, the Government finds it necessary to negotiate with the American Government a new Accord for the service of the amortization of the external loan. I should, therefore, be obliged to you if you would be good enough to go to New York in order to commence preliminary conversations to this end, notably with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council. I will communicate to you at a later date if the Government believes it is necessary to negotiate an accord similar to that which was signed on January 13, 1938, only for the fiscal year 1938–1939, or if it considers the new accord should cover a period of two years. I wish to invite your attention to the fact that it will be impossible for me to draw up and have voted a budget for the period 1938–1939 so long as a new accord for the amortization for the debt shall not have been concluded. Accept [etc.] Georges Léger


---
## [d593] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3599: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , May 10, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:08 p.m.]

49. For Mayer. Upon telegraphic instructions from De la Rue, Pixley has informed Leger that the Department has authorized you upon your arrival to agree after a request from him to an extension for 1 year of the accord of January 13 on the same general terms and conditions.

Garde death sentences commuted yesterday to life imprisonment. Certain officers of the Haitian Garde were tried by court martial for complicity in the attempted assassination of the commander of the Palace Garde and given death sentences, but the President commuted these to imprisonment for different periods of time at hard labor (838.00/3407, 3411, 3415, 3517).

Finley


---
## [d594] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3616: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , June 8, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2:20 p.m.]

57. Reference my mail despatch No. 184, June 3. Not printed. Pixley tells me that Leger has just informed him that he intends to instruct De la Rue today by telegraph to begin negotiations with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council with regard to continuing the moratorium on the amortization of the 1922 loan.

Mayer


---
## [d595] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3629: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , June 15, 1938—noon . [Received 2 p.m.]

65. An official note dated June 14 Post , p. 596 . has been received from the Haitian Government stating that the conditions which prompted Haiti to request a moratorium on part of the amortization of the loan of 1922 have not changed for the better in the meantime and that accordingly a renewal of the moratorium is requested for the next fiscal year. In making this request the Haitian Government confirms its desire to continue to execute all the engagements expressed in its note of January 11, 1938. A copy of a letter from the Fiscal Representative to the Minister of Finance concerning estimates of receipts for the fiscal year 1938–39—accompanies Leger’s note of June 14.

Copy of note is being forwarded in air mail today and translation and accompanying documents will follow Friday.

Does the Department desire the Legation to draft a reply for submission to it, or will the Department itself send us the reply it desires made?

De la Rue has telegraphed Pixley that he cannot initiate discussions with Protective Council of Bondholders until he has been advised that an official request of the Haitian Government for the extension of the moratorium has been received by the Legation. The above note would seem to be what de la Rue feels he requires. In the absence of any instructions from the Department that formalities are necessary prior to the initiating of de la Rue’s discussions with Bondholders Protective Council (please see the Legation’s despatch No. 139 of April 21, 1938) we have assumed that de la Rue has ample authority from the Haitian Government and the Department to proceed.

Mayer


---
## [d596] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3634

No. 199 Port-au-Prince , June 17, 1938 . [Received June 18.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 65, June 15, 12 noon, 1938, and to transmit herewith a copy and translation of Haitian Foreign Office note dated June 14, 1938, and its enclosures requesting the extension for another year of the moratorium which resulted from the Accord of January 13, 1938.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer

[Enclosure—Translation] The Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Léger ) to the American Minister ( Mayer ) Port-au-Prince , June 14, 1938 . Mr. Minister : The economic and financial situation of the Republic of Haiti, not having been modified to any extent since my letter of January 11, 1938, and the economic perspective for the fiscal year 1938–39 not leaving grounds for hope that any notable betterment may come about, my Government finds itself obliged to ask your Government to be good enough to prolong the stipulation of the Accord of January 13, 1938, for a new period of time, running from October 1, 1938, to September 30, 1939. The world market for coffee has scarcely changed and the situation is still the same as that depicted in my letter of January 11. From that date to today prices have not been maintained at the levels which we hoped for and in consequence the fiscal receipts for the current year will attain with difficulty the sum of Gdes. 28,000,000 in spite of the fact that I had foreseen Gdes. 28,690,000 in my letter. The Haitian Government has realized the economies in its budget to which it engaged itself January 11, 1938, and naturally will take the necessary measures to face its expenses during the end of the present fiscal year by means of its available funds. It is evident that in these conditions the treasury will not possess any appreciable reserve at the begining of the next fiscal year. The office of the Fiscal Representative estimates the ways and means of the next fiscal year at the sum of Gdes. 29,189,000. This sum is clearly insufficient to permit the Government to maintain the administrative services necessary to public order, and its economic stability, and at the same time to assure the full amortization of the loan of 1922. In begging your Government to accept to prolong its Accord of January 13, 1938, for the period of one year, the Haitian Government confirms its determination to continue to execute during the period of the prolongation all the engagements expressed in my letter of January 11, 1938. I have the honor to enclose, under this cover, a copy of a letter from the Fiscal Representative dated today, Printed in Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inc., Annual Report, 1938 (New York, 1939), p. 730. addressed to the Secretary of State for Finance concerning the estimates of receipts, during the fiscal year 1938–39. I seize the occasion [etc.] Georges N. Léger


---
## [d597] The Fiscal Representative of Haiti ( De la Rue ) to the Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan )
838.51/3546

New York , June 17, 1938 .

My Dear Mr. Duggan : In accordance with instructions of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Finance of the Republic of Haiti, I have presented to-day to Mr. Francis White, President of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council at 90 Bond Street, New York, New York, the request of the Republic of Haiti for favorable consideration by the Bondholders’ Council of an extension of the Accord of January 13, 1938, entered into between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of Haiti, for the partial suspension of Sinking Fund payments for a new period to commence October 1, 1938, and ending September 30, 1939.

A copy of the letter by which this was formally presented has already been informally delivered to Mr. Selden Chapin, and it is requested that that letter be attached to this report for your record.

Mr. White gave a friendly and favorable reception to the presentation made and said that it would be communicated by him to the Committee of the Bondholders’ Council on Tuesday next. In the interval he plans to get in touch with you to discuss action which is incidental to the matter.

Very truly yours,

S. de la Rue


---
## [d598] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3631: Telegram

Washington , June 22, 1938—5 p.m.

50. Your despatch no. 198 of June 15, 1938. Not printed; it transmitted copies in French of the Haitian Government’s note of June 14 and its enclosures. De la Rue states that when he broached the matter of an extension of the partial moratorium in the amortization of the 1929 loan to Mr. Francis White of the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, the latter expressed sympathy and understanding of the Haitian position and extended “a friendly and favorable reception to the presentation made” to the effect that it would be impossible for Haiti to continue to maintain the essential services of government if it is to resume the full amortization payments on October 1 of this year.

Accordingly you are requested to acknowledge the receipt of note no. 38 of June 14 from the Haitian Minister of Foreign Affairs, a copy of which was enclosed in your despatch under reference. You should state in your acknowledgment that you are authorized, and authorization is hereby given you, to sign a supplemental executive agreement extending the Accord of January 13, 1938 for 1 year from September 30, 1938.

Referring to the statement in the Haitian note that the Government of Haiti will continue during the period of the prolongation all the engagements set forth in its note of June 11, 1938, and referring also to the undertaking of the Haitian Government in the last-mentioned note that extraordinary appropriations outside of the general budget would be restricted to emergencies, duly recognized as such in accord with the Fiscal Representative, during the period of the default, you may state in your acknowledgment that “My government understands that the specific undertaking mentioned is not designed to prevent appropriations for the construction of public works aimed at increasing the economic prosperity of the country, the funds for which will be obtained from a loan floated by the Haitian Government for this specific purpose. Please advise me whether your government shares this understanding.”

It is the Department’s desire that the new agreement be drawn up in the identical text of the above-named agreement of January 13, 1938 with the exception of the first clause in Article I which should read as follows: “On and after October 1, 1938 and until and including September 30, 1939, all moneys, et cetera.” The date on which the Accord is to be signed is left for determination by mutual agreement with the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Hull


---
## [d599] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3649

No. 222 Port-au-Prince , July 1, 1938 . [Received July 5.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 74, dated July 1, 12 noon, 1938, Not printed. and to enclose the Supplementary Executive Agreement between the United States and Haiti which was signed here this morning, Executive Agreement Series No. 128, or 53 Stat. 1923. prolonging the partial moratorium on amortization of the 1922 Loan until September 30, 1939. The signed document is enclosed.

There are also transmitted copies of the exchange of Notes preliminary to the signing of the Accord.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer

[Enclosure 1] The American Minister ( Mayer ) to the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Léger ) No. 65 Port-au-Prince , June 27, 1938 . Excellency : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency’s Note dated June 14, 1938, which states that the economic and financial situation of the Haitian Government has scarcely been modified since January 11, 1938, the date of Your Excellency’s last communication on this subject, and that the outlook for the fiscal year 1938–1939 does not permit the hope that this situation will notably improve. The Haitian Government, therefore, finds itself obliged to request the American Government to prolong the provisions of the Accord of January 13, 1938, for a further period, running from October 1, 1938, to September 30, 1939. Your Excellency states that the world market for coffee has scarcely changed, and that the situation in this respect is still the same as that described in the Note of January 11, 1938. Prices have not been maintained at the hoped for levels and, consequently, the receipts of the Haitian Government will attain with difficulty the sum of Gdes. 28,000,000 although Gdes. 28,690,000 had been foreseen. It is noted that Your Excellency’s Government has most meritoriously realized the economies to which it engaged itself in its Note of January 11, 1938, and, with its available funds, will meet its expenses during the remainder of the present fiscal year. It is also noted that in these conditions the Haitian Treasury will possess no appreciable reserve at the beginning of the next fiscal year. Your Excellency continues by stating that the Office of the Fiscal Representative estimates receipts during the next fiscal year at Gdes. 29,189,000, a sum clearly insufficient, you state, to permit the Government to maintain the services necessary to public order and economic stability and, at the same time, to assure the full amortization of the loan of 1922. In requesting the American Government to prolong the period of the reduction in amortization granted in the Accord of January 13, 1938, Your Excellency confirms the determination of the Haitian Government to continue the execution of all the engagements taken in the Note of January 11, 1938, and encloses a copy of a letter, dated June 14, 1938, from the Fiscal Representative setting forth his estimates of receipts during the fiscal year 1938–1939. In reply, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that I have been authorized by my Government to conclude and sign a Supplementary Executive Agreement extending the Accord of January 13, 1938, for one year from September 30, 1938, as follows: “ Supplementary Executive Agreement The undersigned plenipotentiaries, duly authorized by their respective governments, have agreed upon the following supplementary executive agreement: Article I On and after October 1, 1938, and until and including September 30, 1939, all moneys received by or for the Haitian Government shall be deposited in the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti to the credit of the Haitian Government with the exception of the five percentum of customs revenues foreseen in Article IX of the Accord of August 7, 1933, and the amounts needed for payments connected with the execution of the Loan Contracts which payments during the period mentioned shall consist of the amounts necessary to pay the interest on all outstanding bonds issued under the Loan Contracts of October 6, 1922, and May 26, 1925, and $20,000 on account of the amounts required to be paid under such Loan Contracts for the amortization of the bonds, which amounts shall be credited to the Fiscal Representative. Article II The provisions of the first sentence of Article XI and the first and last sentences of Article XVI of the Accord of August 7, 1933, to the extent and only to the extent that they may be inconsistent with the provisions of Article I of this Accord, shall be suspended so long as this Supplementary Executive Agreement remains in effect. Signed at Port-au-Prince, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this . . . . . day of . . . . . . ., nineteen hundred and thirty eight.” Referring to the statement in Your Excellency’s Note under acknowledgment that the Government of Haiti will continue during the period of the prolongation of the reduction in amortization payments to carry out all the engagements set forth in the Note of January 11, 1938, and also to the understanding of the Haitian Government in the last mentioned Note that extraordinary appropriations outside of the general budget would be restricted to emergencies duly recognized as such in accord with the Fiscal Representative during the period of the default, my Government understands that the specific undertaking mentioned is not designed to prevent appropriations for the construction of public works aimed at increasing the economic prosperity of the country, the funds for which will be obtained from a loan floated by the Haitian Government for this specific purpose. I shall be pleased to learn whether Your Excellency’s Government shares this understanding. I shall also be pleased to learn Your Excellency’s pleasure as to the time and place for signing the proposed Supplementary Executive Agreement. Accept [etc.] Ferdinand L. Mayer

[Enclosure 2—Translation] The Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Léger ) to the American Minister ( Mayer ) Port-au-Prince , June 29, 1938 . Mr. Minister : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the letter of the 27th of this June, by which Your Excellency was good enough to advise me that you had been authorized by your Government to sign an agreement extending for a period of one year the arrangement entered into by our two Governments on January 13, 1938, relative to the amortization service on the 1922 loan. Thanking Your Excellency for that communication, I have the honor to suggest that the agreement in question be signed at 11 a.m. on the 30th of this June, if that date and hour suit Your Excellency. It is understood between the two Governments, as you have brought out in your letter, that the engagements assumed by the Haitian Government in the letter of January 11, 1938, do not place any obstacle in the way of the passing of appropriations for the execution of public works intended to augment the economic prosperity of the country, in case the Haitian Government should succeed in its efforts to finance such works. Please accept [etc.] Georges N. Léger



# CHAPTER [ch31] Representations against the inclusion in the Franco-Haitian commercial agreement of provisions regarding the French gold loan of 1910, and failure of the Haitian Government to extend most-favored-nation treatment For previous correspondence, see Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , pp. 560 ff.

---
## [d600] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/190

No. 58 Port-au-Prince , February 3, 1938 . [Received February 5.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that in the course of a conversation which the Second Secretary of the Legation Harold D. Finley. had recently with M. Pierre de Francqueville, Chargé d’Affaires of France at Port-au-Prince, the latter informed Mr. Finley that M. Adrien de Lens, French Minister here, who is now in France, will return to Haiti about the first of April. At the same time, M. de Francqueville said that, especially if Mr. Léger Georges Léger, Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Finance. remained in office, M. de Lens was hopeful upon his return that the question of Franco-Haitian commercial relations could be straightened out.

It would first, of course, be necessary to arrive at some conclusion with regard to the 1910 question. French loan of September 5, 1910; for text of contract, see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , October 26, 1910. This M. de Lens had in mind to solve by getting Haiti’s agreement to the imposition in France of a small surtax on imports of Haitian coffee. This surtax would be collected in France, and in the course of ten or fifteen years would satisfactorily pay off the 1910 bondholders. Certain technical difficulties would have to be ironed out, for under French law, as it exists at present, French customs officials have no authority to collect funds for the benefit of private individuals. M. de Francqueville felt, however, that these technical questions could be overcome. He did not state the amount of the surtax that was contemplated.

The size of the proposed surtax in France on Haitian coffee is, of course, determinant in this matter. I understand it is 25 cents per pound. Offhand, it is to be feared that a satisfactory commercial arrangement with Haiti having been obtained, and after Haiti had obtained a reasonable quota for coffee from France, the result might possibly be that a “squeeze play” method would have been inaugurated which could easily result unhappily for Haiti and put her whole coffee export to France on an official “blackmail” basis for the present and future.

That such a scheme is being considered is borne out by a subsequent conversation which I had with M. Léger, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. M. Léger, of his own volition, brought up this subject, confirmed largely what had been told me by M. de Francqueville, and said that he wished to put something before me in a purely personal way. He said Haiti continued to be embarrassed by the reluctance of the Department to contemplate any sort of settlement by his Government of the 1910 question, for they now needed the French coffee market in the worst way. France had shown itself adamant in refusing to grant a coffee quota to Haiti until the 1910 question is settled. Thus the matter was in an impasse. He wondered whether all possible pressure had been brought by the United States to get France to divorce the two questions—not only in principle but in practice. M. Léger said he felt sure that with France in its present financial difficulties a good deal of pressure could be brought by the United States. He said, however, that he did not wish to broach this possibility officially but that he hoped the Department would see and understand the predicament Haiti was in.

I said I would bring this to the Department’s attention in the way it had been presented to me. I feel that whether or not the Department wishes again to enter into this perennial question, the fact that I can tell M. Léger that I have written the Department will please him. Considering this matter from its several angles, the Department may care to take up this subject again with the French Government, not on the basis, suggested by Léger, of trying to make that Government carry out its promise to divorce the 1910 bondholders’ claims from the question of a commercial treaty with France, but rather in order strongly to press the French Government to abandon the pretensions of the 1910 bondholders and all the blackmail tactics and chicanery with which it has been supporting them, and to negotiate a trade convention with the Haitian Government on its own merits. In other words, might it be profitable at this time, in taking up the cudgels for Haiti, to shift the argument more in line with our own interests which might also prove immediately advantageous to Haiti and thus, by direct attack, to seek to lay once and for all the ghost of the French threat against the priority of the 1922 bondholders. Loan contract of October 6, 1922, between the Republic of Haiti and the National City Company and the National City Bank, both of New York; for text, see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , October 30, 1922; see also Foreign Relations , 1922, vol. ii , pp. 472 ff.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d601] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
638.5131/191

No. 43 Washington , March 29, 1938 .

Sir : The Department referred a copy of your despatch no. 58 of February 3, 1938, on Franco-Haitian commercial relations and the 1910 loan bonds to the Embassy in Paris with a request for comments on the desirability of broaching the matter again to the French Government and the possible efficacy of further representations.

There is enclosed a copy of the Embassy’s despatch no. 1899 of March 7, 1938, Not printed. in reply, from which it will be noted that the Chargé d’Affaires, after detailing certain reasons, expresses the opinion, in which the Department concurs, that the “reopening of discussions on the specific subject of the 1910 bonds and their relationship to the French attitude vis-à-vis a commercial convention would be entirely futile”.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d602] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/192

No. 126 Port-au-Prince , April 6, 1938 . [Received April 12.]

Sir : I have the honor to report that despatch No. 1899 dated March 7, 1938, from the Paris Embassy, Not printed. a copy of which was enclosed with the Department’s instruction No. 43 dated March 29, 1938, has been read with considerable interest and it is noted that unless the Department feels it advisable to bring unusual pressure to bear on the French Government, the Embassy feels that re-opening discussion of the 1910 question in its relation to a new Franco-Haitian commercial convention would be entirely futile.

M. Léger, the Haitian Secretary for Foreign Relations, has asked me several times recently whether anything had been heard on this subject, which is still engaging his particular interest. The Department will recall that it has been the Foreign Minister’s constant wish to see commercial relations with France resumed, and he, as well as many of the coffee exporters, feel that the French coffee market is still necessary to Haitian economy. I have the impression that M. Léger has never himself been averse to an arrangement with the 1910 bondholders which would permit the commercial question to be solved.

As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked me recently what if any further help he might expect from the Department in the above regard I feel that shortly I must give him some sort of a reply. I might observe here that M. Léger is under no illusions concerning the matter and understands that the only way that France can be brought to a reasonable trade agreement with Haiti is to try “pressure” from the United States unless Haiti is willing to concede to French wishes regarding the 1910 bondholders. In the circumstances the matter boils down to this. Are we willing to help Haiti by exerting “pressure” on France and to protect Haiti from surrendering to French demands regarding the settlement of the 1910 loan—demands we consider unjust and against our interests—or, am I to tell M. Léger that we can do nothing further and so in effect hand over the Haitian Government to the tender mercies of France, most probably to the technical detriment of our 1922 bondholders and certainly to the weakening of our position vis-à-vis the Haitian Government.

I should greatly appreciate the Department’s specific instruction on this matter.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d603] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
711.38/290: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , May 27, 1938—noon . [Received 3:05 p.m.]

55. Recent conversation in Washington and my report (please see especially my despatch No. 172, May 24 Not printed. ) have described the distressing economic situation here, the universal hope of assistance from the United States, the opportunity afforded us in this unprecedented pro-American atmosphere and finally the probability that failure on our part positively to implement the good neighbor policy will bring correspondingly sharp disillusionment which in turn will most likely either drive Haiti to alternative assistance and/or make us “the goat”. Indeed President Vincent has so publicly and completely thrown himself upon the mercy of the United States for the relief of the present economic difficulties in Haiti and impliedly for the success of his own administration that it seems certain he must make us out responsible for any failure to turn the trick and for the political disturbances or chaos which would most probably result.

I telegraph this summary since there is a time element involved. This is because of the economic situation, slowly but surely growing worse as we enter the “dead season” with no usual backlog of a good season and also because of the Haitian Government’s desire to enact its budget legislation soon, entailing arrangements as early in June as possible for continuance of the moratorium on the amortization of the 1922 loan. See pp. 573 ff. Once this second moratorium is arranged, private financial or economic assistance for Haiti becomes all the more difficult if not impossible for the time being.

Pro-French and pro-American sentiment within the Government play a part in this particular situation. The former undoubtedly looks with satisfaction upon the failure of the United States thus far to take advantage of the recent swing in sympathy here in our direction and hopes to capitalize this to French advantage. It is evident that every effort is being made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to solve the French treaty difficulty in the near future. This could present France as the real friend of Haiti in her critical time whereas the United States and its much vaunted good neighbor policy failed to bring concrete benefits when most needed.

As I said recently in Washington, I believe that we are at a critical and psychological moment in our relations with Haiti when all the cards are in our favor. We have made great progress in public esteem here due to our wise and generous action under the good neighbor policy with respect to the withdrawal of the occupation and gradual elimination of financial control. However desirable and appreciated, this was negative, so to speak, from the local viewpoint. What the Haitians pray for, and expect with a rather childlike faith, and what the local situation requires, is positive remedial financial-economic action either by, or at the instance of our Government for the support of present conditions here. Haiti will always need the sort of help the successful members of a family should accord to the less privileged relations. It is in the working out of the manner of this assistance, in the form we can evolve for this concrete cooperation, that I feel will come the test of our good neighbor policy with respect to Haiti.

Mayer


---
## [d604] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/193

No. 186 Port-au-Prince , June 4, 1938 . [Received June 8.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the third paragraph of my telegram No. 55 of May 27. This paragraph expresses the Legation’s opinion that every effort is being made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to solve the French treaty difficulty in the near future.

Mr. Pixley, the Acting Fiscal Representative, has been watching this matter closely and discussing the situation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on numerous occasions. While Monsieur Léger has indicated to Mr. Pixley, as indeed he has to me from time to time recently, that progress is being made for a Franco-Haitian treaty, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has always said that there were certain details still to be arranged and that signature was not imminent although the two countries were in general agreement of the principles along the lines of previous drafts of the treaty.

Mr. Pixley has asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Finance for a clean copy of the present draft on which the two governments are working and was promised such a paper within a short time. This draft has not as yet been received. Meanwhile, the Minister of Foreign Affairs told Mr. Pixley quite emphatically that while the appeasement of the 1910 bondholders was a definite factor in arriving at a commercial treaty with France, and while it was true that there was discussion of ways and means of satisfying these bondholders by a surcharge on shipments of Haitian coffee to France, the Haitian Government had no intention of acting as “collecting agent” for the French Government for any such surcharge.

Mr. Pixley and I have assumed that the real stumbling block to a consummation of the treaty conditions remains in the arrangement for the French Foreign Office holders of the 1910 bonds, and that this obstacle might hold up the treaty for some time if not indefinitely for the future as has been the case in the past. Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has always said that a signature of the treaty would await the return here of Mr. de Lens, Leon Adrien de Lens, French Minister in Haiti. who has been in Paris on leave for the past seven months. (M. de Lens left Haiti on October 27, 1937). This morning, however, M. Léger told Mr. Pixley that the treaty might be signed in Paris, implying, Mr. Pixley thought, that the treaty was closer to completion than had hitherto been thought to be the case.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d605] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/196

No. 191 Port-au-Prince , June 10, 1938 . [Received June 11.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 58, dated June 9, 2 p.m., 1938, Not printed. concerning the present status of negotiations for a Franco-Haitian commercial convention, and to report that the text of the draft convention transmitted to the Department with the Legation’s despatch No. 548, dated September 4, 1937, Neither printed. is identical with that which it is now proposed by the Haitian Government to conclude. However, in a letter to the Acting Fiscal Representative under date of June 8, 1938, Minister of Finance Léger mentioned certain modifications which he has requested the Haitian Minister to Paris to propose to and urge upon the French Government. The Haitian representative is not, however, to refuse to sign should the French Government insist on the present text without modification.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Department will observe that there is no reference in the draft convention to the 1910 question. I am informed by Minister Léger that the convention may be accompanied by an exchange of letters between the two governments in which France will request Haiti to agree, and Haiti will express a willingness to permit the levying of a surtax on Haitian coffee imported into France. This surtax would be collected in France and, it is understood, would go to the French bondholders, although this will not be so stated in any exchange of letters, M. Léger informs me. The letters will not, according to M. Léger, refer in any way to the 1910 affair.

From the rapid study which the Legation has thus far been able to make, the changes in the text of the convention proposed by M. Léger, as well as those in the lists, do not appear substantially to modify the document. It is therefore supposed that the attitude of the Department—barring the question of the 1910 settlement—will be substantially that indicated in its telegram No. 45, dated September 13, 6 [ 7 ] p.m., 1937. Foreign Relations , 1937, vol. v , p. 590 . I am convinced that M. Léger is well aware of this attitude, as well as with that contained in the Department’s telegram No. 21, dated June 20, 2 p.m., 1935. Ibid ., 1935, vol. iv , p. 661 .

I shall be pleased to be instructed what action, if any, the Department desires me to take in the premises. Should no objection be perceived to the convention, I shall be glad if I may be informed whether the Legation may state that it has no objection to the Acting Fiscal Representative’s giving his formal approval to the measure.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d606] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
638.5131/196: Telegram

Washington , June 15, 1938—7 p.m.

45. Your despatch no. 191 of June 10, last two paragraphs. You are correct in your understanding that Department’s attitude towards a proposed Franco-Haitian commercial agreement remains substantially that set forth in Department’s telegrams nos. 21 of June 30 [ 20 ], 2 p.m., 1935, and 45, September 13, 6 [ 7 ] p.m., 1937.

You are authorized to state that the Legation has no objection to the acting Fiscal Representative giving his accord to the proposed agreement, providing that as you have been given to understand by Léger, no reference is made in the proposed agreement or the accompanying exchange of notes to the 1910 loan.

Hull


---
## [d607] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/199

No. 206 Port-au-Prince , June 20, 1938 . [Received June 25.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the Department’s telegram No. 45, of June 15, 7 p.m., with regard to a proposed Franco-Haitian commercial agreement.

I communicated the substance of this telegram both to President Vincent and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. They assured me individually that there was no reference to the 1910 loan in the proposed Franco-Haitian commercial agreement nor would any such reference be made in the accompanying exchange of notes.

I have received a letter from the Fiscal Representative’s office officially communicating to me the proposed agreement. This letter states as follows: June 18, 1938. “I am in receipt of a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance, submitting to this office a project of a commercial convention to be signed with France. I enclose a copy of this convention, its schedules, the letter of the Secretary of State for Finance and a study of the treaty made by Mr. T. J. Grant, Chief of Customs Control Section of this office. There is no mention in this treaty of the 1910 loan question and I am assured by the Secretary of State for Finance and Foreign Relations that no mention of this question is to be made in this treaty. He did tell me, however, that there is to be some sort of a supplementary agreement with France which will permit a surtax on Haitian coffee of twenty-two francs per one hundred kilos, and that the French government presumably will use these funds to offer some kind of satisfaction to the 1910 bondholders. However, there is to be no mention of the 1910 loan in any supplementary agreement which may be signed. The loss in revenue will be slightly greater than that shown in Mr. Grant’s memorandum, inasmuch as under the provisions of Article V internal taxes will not be applicable to wines and liquors imported from France. Loss of revenue from this source probably will amount to another thirty or forty thousand gourdes per year. I have suggested informally to Mr. Leger, and expect to repeat in my letter, that Haiti not agree to purchase a definite number of coffee bags in France each year. I happen to know that at the present time a study is being made which may result in the installation of a bag factory for use of our short fibre sisal from the south of the island. At present there is little sale for this sisal. If it could be used to make bags, a market would be more or less assured to these people. I do not intend to make this change a condition precedent to my approval, but only to ask that an effort be made to eliminate the provision under this article of the convention. For the reasons outlined in our several conversations on this subject, I believe I should give my accord to this treaty. Before doing so, however, I should like to be informed as to whether or not you perceive any objection to this action.”

The Legation is replying to the Fiscal Representative’s office as follows: June 20, 1938. “I have for acknowledgment your letter dated June 18, 1938, stating that you have received a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance transmitting a project for a Haitian-French commercial convention. You state that there is no mention in the proposed convention of the question of the 1910 loan, nor will such mention be made in a supplementary agreement which will permit France to levy a surtax of Frs. 22.00 per 100 kilos on Haitian coffee imported into that country. A memorandum accompanying your communication estimates the loss of customs revenue to Haiti at approximately Gdes. 40,000 per year, but you state that the loss of internal revenue on wines and liquors imported into Haiti from France will increase this amount by another Gdes. 30,000–40,000. You state further that you believe you should give your accord to the proposed convention and, following the several conversations we have had on this subject, inquire whether the Legation perceives any objection to your granting this approval. In reply, please be advised that, inasmuch as the loss of revenue to Haiti will, in all probability, be more than compensated by the opening of the French market to Haitian coffee, and since no reference is to be made in the convention or in any supplementary agreement which accompanies or is annexed to it of the 1910 loan question, the Legation perceives no objection to your granting your approval to the project.”

I understand from the Minister for Foreign Relations that it is still his expectation that the agreement will be signed before the end of the month.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d608] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/203

No. 212 Port-au-Prince , June 24, 1938 . [Received July 6.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 206 of June 20, on the subject of the Franco-Haitian Commercial Agreement. Yesterday a new angle to this matter arose in connection with the question of the deposit of the monies for the reimbursement to the 1910 bondholders.

As I understand it, and as I believe the Department is informed, these monies have remained in New York at the National City Bank against which payment has been made through request of the Banque Parisienne in Paris whenever a bond is presented for redemption. Now, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the French Government appears to make it one of the conditions of the new Franco-Haitian commercial convention that these monies should be transferred from the National City Bank to the Banque Parisienne in Paris. Mr. Pixley, to whom along with myself M. Léger has communicated this statement, feels that this effort on the part of the French Government to have the redemption fund deposited in Paris would not only be most unwise for the Haitian Government, but subject the fund to such pressure in behalf of these 1910 bondholders who are trying to get extra payment on a gold basis that agreement on the part of the Haitian Government to the proposed transfer of the funds would operate disadvantageously for Haiti as well as for the 1922 bondholders. Mr. Pixley has in mind that the Banque Parisienne being in possession of the fund might be “forced” by French Government influence to pay several of the bondholders at the gold franc rate. This, according to Mr. Pixley, would dissipate the entire fund leaving nothing to pay the rest of the 1910 bondholders. Further “squeeze” would result both actually and metaphorically to the end that Haiti’s assets would be diminished by that much to the detriment of the 1922 bondholders. In other words Mr. Pixley is rather suspicious that this new move on the part of the French Government is another flank attack on the 1910 bondholders gold franc payment question and should therefore be prevented. As a matter of fact, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Finance expressed himself in no uncertain terms to me the other day on this subject, feeling that the French were trying at the last moment to strike an extremely hard bargain both in this relation and in respect to certain other details.

In my conversations with Mr. Pixley on this subject I have kept continually in mind and repeated to him the Department’s telegram No. 45, June 15, 7 p.m. Mr. Pixley is fully aware of this and in entire ageement he has adopted the same position repeatedly with M. Léger and has communicated to him the following letter which he prepared in collaboration with the Legation.

Translation.

“June 20, 1938. “Mr. Secretary of State for Finances, “I have in my possession your letter of June 8, 1938 concerning the project of the Franco-Haitian commercial convention. I note that you have proposed various [modifications?] in this convention, but that these modifications are not considered by you as essential, and that if the French Government refuses to sign unless the original text be accepted you propose to accept this text. These modifications seem very desirable and I hope that you will be able to obtain their acceptance. “I would add to the projected modifications in the Accord suggesting that Article 10 be eliminated or modified in a manner so that it would become inoperative if sacks come to be made in Haiti with sisal. I am informed officially by a firm established in Haiti that it is carefully considering establishment of a sack factory which would use short fibered native sisal. The information has been given me confidentially but I think that it should be divulged inasmuch as in the Accord it is intended to purchase 200,000 sacks a year in France. “In discussing this matter with you I believe I understand that no mention is to be made in the Convention or any subsequent Accord of the question of the loan of 1910. If this is the case in the subject of your letter, I take pleasure in informing you that I give my accord to this Convention. “Agree Mr. Secretary of State, to the assurance of my distinguished consideration, Deputy Fiscal Representative.”

According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the 22nd instant, the Convention was to be signed that day. It, of course, makes no mention of the 1910 loan question nor of this matter of the deposit of the redemption fund, as this was to be handled we learned, in a supplementary arrangement. The object of Mr. Pixley’s latest representation, as contained in his letter to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Finance, quoted above, is to take every precaution that the Department’s instruction No. 45 will be carried out, and that in any supplementary arrangement in connection therewith no mention will be made of the 1910 loan which would appear necessary if the redemption fund is to be handed over to the Banque Parisienne as a part of the price of the new Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d609] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/201

No. 214 Port-au-Prince , June 25, 1938 . [Received June 28.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 206 of June 20, 1938, concerning the proposed Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention, and to report that the local press this morning states that the Convention was signed yesterday at Paris. For text signed June 24, 1938, see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , July 11, 1938.

The Legation has no indication that the Convention is other than that which has already received the Department’s approval. M. Leger has repeatedly informed Mr. Pixley and me that neither the convention nor the accompanying exchange of notes will mention the 1910 question. There can be no doubt but that M. Leger’s undertaking on this point is quite clear, and has been thoroughly understood by him.

On the other hand, the Legation already perceives that there is considerable confusion—if not mystery—surrounding the contents of the accompanying notes which are to be exchanged. According to M. Leger, the text of these notes has not yet been drafted. He has informed Mr. Pixley that M. Chatelain, the Haitian Minister to Paris, has been most uncommunicative regarding the notes, and that in spite of repeated requests for information as to the course of the negotiations, neither M. Leger nor President Vincent has been able to obtain satisfaction. M. Leger has informed Mr. Pixley that he expects to recall M. Chatelain in the near future as a result of this ambiguity.

However, the Legation observes out of the cloud which appears to surround this matter two facts which are not entirely reassuring. First, M. Leger has appeared to Mr. Pixley as somewhat embarrassed over the Department’s approval of the convention and the notes “providing no mention of the 1910 matter is made”. Leger has informed Mr. Pixley that he may have to write him with a view to having the wording of this approval slightly changed. M. Leger contends, however, that he has taken no obligation with respect to the 1910 question.

On the other hand, and second, M. Leger has informed Pixley that among the subjects which have been under negotiation is the transfer to the Union Parisienne of the Frs. 23,000,000 now deposited in the National City Bank of New York (as Fiscal Agents for the 1922 loan) for the redemption of the 1910 bonds as they are presented for payment. Leger, it appears, has agreed to pay the 1910 bondholders 500 paper francs per bond, and the French have contended that in view of this commitment, the Frs. 23,000,000 should at once be transferred to Paris for the purpose.

From what the Legation learns, Leger was not at first opposed to this scheme. When Pixley discussed the plan with the Legation, however, various objections seemed evident. The deposit in Paris of this fund would at once subject it to the jurisdiction of French courts who might well pronounce the 1910 bonds payable in gold. The fund would serve to pay off, in such a case, about one tenth of the bonds that are outstanding, and the balance would be obligations of the Haitian Government for which no redemption funds would be available. Only the fact that this fund has always been in the United States, and not in France, has prevented this procedure thus far. Leger has now seen this point, according to Pixley, and is now in favor of transferring the fund only if suitable guarantees can be given that the fund will remain sacred. Leger has also expressed doubt to Chatelain that the National City Bank will transfer this fund inasmuch as they may contend that they are acting as trustees in the premises. If the interest of the French Government in this transfer is bona fide, and no attempt will be made to utilize the funds for the payment of bonds in gold, they still have the additional interest that not all of the outstanding bonds may be presented—a fact which would leave a small but considerable balance of the fund on hand after all the bonds that were presented had been redeemed at Frs. 500 each.

The above are the only points in dispute concerning which the Legation has information at present. Going on what has been our experience in the past, we have no hope that these are all the points in dispute between the two Governments, nor have we as yet any indication of what exactly will be contained in the exchange of notes. It is possible that M. Leger is also in the dark, but one is tempted rather to ascribe the confusion once again to the Foreign Secretary’s francophile tendencies and the ineptitudes which have almost invariably accompanied his and Chatelain’s dealings with the Quai d’Orsay.

Leger has informed me this morning, however, that he will not further consider the transfer of the redemption fund to France unless he can obtain the assurance of the French Government that it will not be attached by the bondholders. I remarked at the same time that I hoped the Haitian Government would take no action with respect to the rehabilitation of the 1910 gold controversy which would prevent the conclusion of the new public works project or later result in the project’s cancellation.

My feeling is that our position has been made entirely clear. On the other hand, and to insure Haiti’s fulfillment of its commitment not to mention the 1910 matter—and now that the convention has been signed—I venture to suggest the possibility that the American Ambassador at Paris might be instructed to inform the French Foreign Office that we have approved the convention and the exchange of notes solely on the ground that the 1910 matter shall not be mentioned. I have no ground for hope that Leger or Chatelain have made this clear to the French.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer

P. S. Referring to the suggested action at Paris, at the top of this page, I would not of course wish to have this action taken until I have first had the opportunity of discussing the matter with the Haitian Government here. The suggestion is made, always having this previous discussion in view.


---
## [d610] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3654a: Telegram

Washington , July 8, 1938—7 p.m.

60. Please call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and say that from the text of the Franco-Haitian commercial convention as published in the French Journal Officiel of June 26, a copy of which was sent you by air mail letter, it is clear that the financial clauses relating to the 1910 loan contrary to our expectations are embodied in a Protocole de Signature forming apparently an annexed document to the convention if not in fact an integral part thereof.

You should inform Leger that this Government has naturally been disappointed that despite assurances to the contrary, mention has been made of the 1910 loan claims in the Protocole de Signature and that this Government has been somewhat disturbed at the situation thus brought about, particularly since the financial clauses referred to stipulate the transfer to a bank in France where they apparently are subject to French jurisdiction of funds which this Government and the Haitian Government have always considered formed a just and full tender of settlement to the outstanding holders of the 1910 bonds. You may add in this connection that irrespective of the implied renunciation of this principle that the original tender was a just one, this Government notes that the new convention does not appear to contain any guarantees either to the effect that the funds to be transferred will not be impounded or even that the payment of 500 francs per bond plus the scrip for 26 dollars will constitute a definite and final settlement of the claims of the 1910 bondholders.

Furthermore, you may wish to call attention to the possible impairment by the operation envisaged of the position occupied by the 1922 loans whose issuance was originally made contingent on assurances that full and equitable tender of settlement had been made for the outstanding bonds of the 1910 loan.

You may say in conclusion that this Government will be pleased to receive at an early date an indication from the Haitian Government as to the policy it intends to pursue with respect to the above observations.

Hull


---
## [d611] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3665

[Extracts]

No. 231 Port-au-Prince , July 13, 1938 . [Received July 14.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the Department’s telegram No. 60, July 8, 7 p.m. (1938), concerning the recently concluded Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention and its annexed Protocol of Signature, and to transmit a copy of the aide-mémoire I left with Secretary for Foreign Affairs Léger on July 9, as well as a copy and translation of an aide-mémoire which he handed me on July 11, 1938, concerning this subject. My telegram No. 81 of July 9, 1 p.m., Not printed. reported the conversation of July 9. The text of the Convention and Protocol as published in the French Journal Officiel on June 26, 1938, has been received under cover of a letter from Mr. Chapin. Selden Chapin, of the Division of the American Republics.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The Legation believes that M. Léger is truthful when he stated that he did not know, until after the convention had been signed, that it would be accompanied by any document so formal and so closely linked to the convention as the protocol of signature. As soon as he heard this, he recalled Chatelain. He then devoted all his energies to keeping the protocol secret.

Either the French would not listen to Chatelain—or Chatelain, angry at his recall, may have failed to carry out the instructions which were given him in this sense. The Quai d’Orsay may have wished to disturb Haitian-American negotiations for a public works contract. M. Léger and the French Government may still have some scheme in mind for the entry of French interests into the Haitian public works field. In any event, the protocol was published in Paris.

In spite of M. Léger’s seeming embarrassment at the denouement, … his local position was not as bad as could have been expected. He could point to the fact that almost simultaneously, he had been able to settle the French commercial question and obtain $5,000,000 for Haiti from the United States. The Legation’s feeling is that M. Léger believed he was playing a very astute game and that in spite of difficulties which have arisen or may arise, he has won the game.

It was inevitable, therefore, that M. Léger’s aide-mémoire in reply to the observations of the Department (Department’s telegram No. 60, July 8, 7 p.m.) would be casuistic and specious. I venture to think the Department will share our view that it is that.

First, it hardly seems that, in the protocol, the Haitian Government has only assumed the two obligations which M. Léger specifies; it would seem that in addition the Haitian Government has formally accepted the scheme whereby the proceeds of the surtax are to be distributed to the 1910 bondholders. The acceptance of such a scheme seems to us to imply that the Haitian Government recognizes that something is due the bondholders. It also seems evident that this can be and will be construed as a recognition of the 1910 gold claim.

The Legation does not venture to guess how serious this tacit admission of the 1910 claim may be, but it supposes that it will be of consequence to the 1922 bondholders as well as to the Export-Import Bank.

With regard to the provision in the protocol that the 1910 redemption fund be transferred from New York to Paris, it is supposed that appropriate steps can be taken to prevent this transfer—the more particularly since we are now assured by M. Léger that the transfer is not contemplated.

Mr. Léger’s argument that no declaration of the final settlement of the 1910 matter could be included, and still satisfy the desires of the American Government, seems specious to a degree. Our desire was that the 1910 claim should not be recognized by Haiti. Haiti seems in the protocol to have done so, against our wishes. If the claim was to be recognized in spite of our objection, it would certainly have been desirable to have included a final declaration of clearance.

In view of this, there would seem to be no definite assurance that “legally and in fact, the 1910 matter has disappeared from the Haitian financial horizon”, or that the French Government will not continue to support the 1910 holders as opportunity presents. Will not the holders who have already redeemed their bonds press for a share in the distribution of the surtax?

The Department may wish, in its reply, to take note of Léger’s profession to me that the Fiscal Representative had no right under the 1933 Agreement Signed August 7, 1933, Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. v , p. 755 . to grant or withhold his approval of the Convention on any other grounds than the reduction in customs duties (see my telegram No. 81, July 9, 1 p.m. Not printed. ).

The text of the new Convention was published in Haiti-Journal yesterday afternoon. M. Léger informed me that the protocol would not be published. It appears, however, that the contents of the protocol are substantially known here for in Le Matin of July 11 there appeared the following article:

[Here follows translation of article.]

With reference to the telephone conversation on July 12 between Mr. Duggan Laurence Duggan, Chief of the Division of the American Republics. and the Legation, Minister Lescot Elie Lescot, Haitian Minister to the United States. was found almost immediately and agreed to return to Washington at once. He then went to the Palace to report his intention to President Vincent. It is believed that a long conversation between the President, M. Léger and M. Lescot ensued. Several hours later, M. Léger called on Mr. de la Rue. Sidney de la Rue, Fiscal Representative of Haiti. According to the latter, M. Léger stated that he had tendered his resignation to the President. The President, however, stated that, through M. Lescot, he had given assurances to Mr. Welles that the 1910 matter would not be mentioned in the French Convention. The President, according also to the same source, felt that he was equally to blame with Léger, and begged Léger not to resign.

Meanwhile, the Haitian Legislature has been called into special session on July 25, 1938. According to newspaper comment, it will take up the revised budget and ratify the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention. M. Léger informed de la Rue (according to the latter) that he had no intention of submitting the protocol for ratification. He had informed the French Government of this intention, and has thus far received no expression of objection.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley

[Enclosure 1] The American Legation to the Haitian Ministry for Foreign Affairs Aide-Mémoire From the text of the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention published in the French Journal Officiel of June 26, 1938, it is clear that the financial clauses relating to the 1910 loan controversy—contrary to the expectations of the United States—are embodied in a Protocol of Signature forming, apparently, an annexed document to the Convention if not, in fact, an integral part thereof. The United States Government has been disappointed that, despite assurances to the contrary, mention has been made of the 1910 loan claims in the Protocol of Signature, and it has been somewhat disturbed at the situation thus brought about, particularly since the financial clauses referred to stipulate the transfer to a bank in France, where they are apparently subject to French jurisdiction, of funds which the United States Government and the Haitian Government have always considered formed a just and full tender of settlement to the outstanding holders of the 1910 bonds. Irrespective of the implied renunciation of this principle that the original tender was a just one, the United States Government notes that the new convention does not appear to contain any guarantees either to the effect that the funds to be transferred will not be impounded or even that the payment of 500 francs per bond plus the scrip for $26.00 will constitute a definite and final settlement of the claims of the 1910 bondholders. Attention is also invited to the fact that the position occupied by the 1922 loans, whose issuance was originally made contingent on assurance that full and equitable tender of settlement had commenced for the outstanding bonds of the 1910 loan, may possibly be impaired by the operation envisaged. The United States Government will be pleased to receive at an early date from the Haitian Government an indication as to the policy it intends to pursue with respect to the above observations. Port-au-Prince , July 9, 1938 .

[Enclosure 2—Translation] The Haitian Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Legation Aide-Mémoire The Protocol of Signature published in the French Journal Officiel of June 26, 1938, charges the Haitian Government with two obligations: (1) The agreement to accept, in spite of the terms of the Commercial Convention, the imposition of a surtax of 22 francs (which eventually may be raised to 24 francs) per quintal of Haitian coffee imported during a period of not to exceed 15 years. (2) The engagement of the Haitian Government to transfer to the Banque de l’Union Parisienne the necessary funds to permit the reimbursement of the 1910 bonds in circulation at the rate of Frs. 500 per bond. The other provisions of the Protocol interest only the French Government and the Banque de l’Union Parisienne. The Haitian Government had not failed to inform the American Government of the arrangement in course of negotiation between the French Government and itself, relative to the surtax of Frs. 22., and had let it be understood very clearly that from all the evidence this arrangement will have to be consecrated by a written document of some sort, an exchange of letters, or otherwise. Desirous of meeting the points of view of the American Government on this subject, the Haitian Government had given precise instructions to its Minister in Paris that in no case was there to be recognized or mentioned the gold claim produced by the French Government in the name of the bearers of the 1910. The Haitian Government recognizes without difficulty—in regretting it—that there would have been more conformity in the assurances it had given if the arrangement in question had not been the object of so formal a document and one so intimately linked to the convention as the Protocol of Signature, but it hopes that the American Government will agree with it with respect to the happy results of the efforts exerted by the Haitian Government in order to give satisfaction to the Department of State in the essence of the matter because not only does no clause of the Protocol imply the recognition of the French gold thesis but also there is no specific allusion made to the existence of this claim. In so far as concerns the obligation to transfer to the Banque de l’Union Parisienne the sums necessary to redeem the 1910 bonds at the rate of Frs. 500 per bond, at bottom no new obligation is assumed by the Haitian Government, and it is only the logical consequence of the decision to redeem the 1910 loan. The American Government expresses its anxiety with regard to the subject of the possibility of seeing opposition practised with respect to the funds which might have been deposited in France by the bearers who might not be satisfied with the arrangement concluded between the French and Haitian Governments. The Haitian Government is happy to be able to give the necessary appeasements to the American Government. In fact, following démarches made to the French Government by the Haitian Minister at Paris, the French Government has indeed declared that it does not insist essentially on the material transfer of funds—that the remittance foreseen in paragraph 4 of the protocol may be considered theoretic; that it will suffice that the Banque de l’Union Parisienne is, if that is necessary, able to effect redemptions in mass, something that could be regulated by an agreement from bank to bank by means of the opening of a credit or otherwise. It therefore remains understood that the funds will not be transferred to France in advance of the redemption of the bonds. The Haitian Government, as soon as the publication of the Franco-Haitian commercial convention in the Moniteur has occurred, will give precise instructions in this sense to the National City Bank. The American Government notes that the Protocol of Signature contains no declaration that the arrangement arrived at constitutes a final liquidation of the claim of the holders of the 1910. The Haitian Government, in its desire to meet the views of the American Government, having refused in the course of the negotiations to take into consideration any explicit recognition of the existence of the claim of the 1910 holders, it was difficult to have included a declaration of the definitive liquidation of this controversy. However, legally and in fact, the arrangement makes the claim completely disappear—a claim, moreover, which was not annoying except in so far as it received the support of the French Government. In so far as concerns the position of the holders of the loan of 1922, the Haitian Government thinks that far from being weakened by the arrangement mentioned in the Protocol, it has, on the contrary, been fortified. In fact, the menace which the claim of the 1910 holders constituted—supported by the French Government—disappears from the Haitian financial horizon. The American Government will understand that it would have been impossible indefinitely to resist the demand of the French Government to submit the controversy which existed between the two Governments with respect to the 1910 loan to an international jurisdiction; it is scarcely necessary to underline the expenses, the risks and the publicity which would have resulted from this procedure. This menace has definitively disappeared. Moreover, this arrangement has permitted the conclusion of the Franco-Haitian convention whose tonic effect on coffee prices in Haiti has been immediate. Whatever enriches the Haitian national economy can only render more certain the guarantee of the holders of the 1922 loan. Port-au-Prince , July 11, 1938 .


---
## [d612] The Department of State to the Haitian Legation
838.51/3665a

Memorandum

The Government of the United States can not but reiterate its disappointment that contrary to the informal assurances given the American Minister and the Acting Fiscal Representative, the 1910 loan question should have been embodied in a protocol of signature annexed to the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention signed on June 24, 1938. In view of its responsibilities to the holders of the 1922 Haitian bonds, the Government would welcome definite assurances on the following points: 1. That the Haitian Government will not publish the Protocol in Haiti and will not submit it for ratification by the Haitian Parliament; 2. That the Haitian Government will obtain from the French Government written assurances that the fund envisaged in paragraph four of the Protocol will not be transferred from the National City Bank of New York to a bank under French jurisdiction except as may be necessary from time to time through an inter-bank operation to assure the reimbursement of the individual outstanding bonds of the 1910 loan when they may be presented for redemption to the Banque de l’Union Parisienne; and 3. That the Haitian Government will obtain from the French Government written assurances that the French Government will not support any further claim on the part of any present or former holders of bonds of the 1910 loan for payment beyond that envisaged in the protocol.

Washington , July 16, 1938 .


---
## [d613] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Under Secretary of State ( Welles )
838.51/3682

Washington , July 23, 1938 .

The Minister of Haiti called to see me this morning at his request. He brought with him for me to read a letter he had received from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and a letter from President Vincent. The latter was written in response to a personal letter from the Haitian Minister in which he had protested strongly against the attitude of the Léger brothers Abel Léger, a former Minister for Foreign Affairs, had recently been appointed Minister in France to succeed Chatelain. The other brother, Georges Léger, was the Minister for Foreign Affairs. in the negotiations with the French Government concerning the 1910 French bondholders. President Vincent stated that his whole policy was directed towards ever-increasingly close relations with the United States and somewhat naively added that Mr. Lescot need not fear that he was in any way under the influence of the Léger brothers. President Vincent reiterated his tremendous satisfaction with the contract with the J. G. White Company A contract of July 6, 1938, between the Haitian Government and the J. G. White Engineering Corporation of New York provided for the execution of a program of public works. The contract was published in Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , July 7, 1938. (838.51/3651, 3673.) and evidenced his pleasure that the engineers of the company were now in Port-au-Prince consulting with regard to the formulation of the three-year program. In a postscript the President referred to the new incident with the Dominican Republic and stated that the body of the Dominican found across the Haitian border was that of Captain Anival Vallejo, a former Dominican army aviator who had been imprisoned by Trujillo in Nigua jail for three years because of alleged complicity in the Franco plot against Trujillo. President Vincent said that when the body was found by a Haitian official it was a “surprising coincidence” that right on the other side of the boundary there should have been a group of armed members of the Dominican army. President Vincent gave it clearly to be understood that Vallejo had been murdered by these members of the Dominican army and that the body had been taken across the Haitian frontier in order deliberately to create complications with Haiti.

The letter from Minister for Foreign Affairs Léger instructed Mr. Lescot to state that the Haitian Government would “probably” have no difficulty in complying with points Nos. 2 and 3 in the memorandum which I had given Mr. Lescot last week with regard to the 1910 bond protocol. Mr. Léger requested Mr. Lescot, however, to say that he would first have to consult the Haitian Minister in Paris with regard to these two points and finally said that with regard to point No. 1 it would be difficult for the Haitian Government to make any such commitment as that requested inasmuch as the secret protocol had been published in the official press in Paris and might consequently, without the desire of the Haitian Government, be reprinted in the Haitian press. I stated to the Haitian Minister that the request of this Department had been that the Haitian Government agree not to submit the protocol for ratification and for the Haitian Government not to publish the protocol. I said that it was quite clear that publication implied “official publication” and that naturally I hadn’t asked the Haitian Government to censor the Haitian press but to refrain from giving the protocol official sanction by publishing it in the Haitian Moniteur . I also called the Minister’s attention to the fact that Mr. Léger made no reference to a commitment to refrain from submitting the protocol for ratification and that Mr. Léger had merely said that the Haitian Government had no present intention of submitting it for ratification.

I expressed to Mr. Lescot the opinion that the matter was one of the utmost importance and that as he knew this Government had assured the purchasers of the 1922 bond issue that the Haitian Government, as a result of assurances given by the latter, would not pay the holders of the 1910 bonds more than the amount agreed upon at that time and that if the Haitian Government now once more opened that question the legitimate rights of the bondholders of the 1922 loan would be jeopardized and the Haitian Government would let itself in for claims which might reach astronomical proportions. The Minister expressed very vehemently his agreement with that point of view and said that unless his Government agreed to the request made by this Government he himself would see that the issue was fairly placed before the Haitian people so that they could see what prejudice had been done to their own rights and to the national credit of their Government.

I requested the Minister to inform his Government that in view of the seriousness of the questions raised, I would have to request that the reply of the Haitian Government to the memorandum handed him last week be sent to us in writing and that I trusted the assurances contained therein would comply fully with the requests made by the Government of the United States.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d614] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/209: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 25, 1938—noon . [Received 2:16 p.m.]

90. President Vincent informs me that the French commercial convention will not be submitted for ratification to the special session of the Legislature which meets today. Léger stated that Chatelain, because of the British royal visit to Paris, had not been able to obtain an audience at the Quai d’Orsay last week but he expects he will be able to discuss the Department’s suggestions on the 1910 matter today. In any event he hopes that he can obtain the agreement reference [ sic ] desired as soon as Abel Léger reaches Paris and De Kuli [ De Lens? ] returns here. The latter is expected early in August. Léger expressed himself as hoping that whatever clouds have surrounded this matter will then be dissipated. President Vincent expressed a similar view.

Finley


---
## [d615] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/212

No. 259 Port-au-Prince , July 30, 1938 . [Received August 2.]

Sir : I have the honor to enclose a copy of a memorandum which has been given me by Mr. Sidney de la Rue, the Fiscal Representative, concerning a conversation which he had with Secretary of Foreign Affairs Georges Léger on July 29, 1938.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley

[Enclosure] Memorandum of Conversation, by the Fiscal Representative of Haiti ( De la Rue ) Port-au-Prince , July 29, 1938 . I had a long talk with Léger this morning. He told me that a note Memorandum I think he called it. [Footnote in the original.] had been handed Lescot, presumably by Mr. Welles, which suggested that the Department would be very pleased if assurances could be given that three things had been arranged satisfactorily in connection with the Haitian-French commercial treaty and the various agreements surrounding it or corollary to it. He mentioned these three things as follows: one , that the Protocol would not be published; two , that no effort would be made to insist upon any transfer of the trust fund held in New York for payment of the 1910 bonds; and three , that the French Government agreed that this arrangement of charging Haitian coffee Frs. 22.00 per 100 kilos and the issuance of a license therefor by the Syndicate of Havre, was recognized by the French Government as a final and full settlement of any possible claim in connection with the 1910 loan, at the same time not admitting that the Haitian Government recognized any claim, but had made this settlement, without recognition, as a means of restoring normal commercial relations, or words to that effect. None of the above is intended to be very exact. I am repeating the conversation as nearly as I remember it. Léger has asked me to repeat this conversation for the simple reason that he says he finds it embarrassing to make an explanation as Foreign Minister. Yet, at the same time, for fear of any misunderstanding, he would like to explain, viz: In connection with the first point, regarding the publication of the Protocol, he told me that he never has received a report from Chatelain as to exactly how this thing got into its present shape, nor why there was a Protocol. As a result of this, while Chatelain was to leave Paris on the last day of August and Abel Léger was to be appointed Minister on that date, Léger and the President have decided to send Abel at once. He is sailing on the direct French boat which leaves here for France tomorrow. De Lens, the French Minister to Haiti, is arriving here tomorrow by airplane from New York. He has been in the States more than a month. Léger says he knows of no reason why he has to publish the Protocol or take any further action in connection with it. But the thing that has him alarmed is the absence of, or refusal to give, any report, on the part of Chatelain. Mr. Léger does not care to be in a position of signing a note without having precise information as to what already has been signed by the Haitian Minister in Paris. What definite engagements are in writing and which have been made by the Haitian Minister in Paris and which might, or might not have a bearing on this matter, Léger must know before he feels free to make a statement to the Department of the unqualified character which he feels the Department has every right to expect. Regarding number two, the transfer of the money in New York to France, Léger tells me he has a telegram from Chatelain stating that this is regarded as purely theoretical and that no insistence is to be expected from French sources on this point. Léger said he has no doubt that this matter has been settled and that it will not cause the Haitian government embarrassment, as otherwise it might, because of course he knows now that he could not get the money released if he wanted to. He has requested Chatelain to obtain the assurance of the French government in this matter, in the form of a letter if, in fact, he had not obtained already such a letter when he telegraphed that the French government would not insist. With reference to number three, viz: that the French government recognize this as a settlement which would eliminate the possibility of any further claim, he has likewise asked for a letter to this effect from the Minister in Paris. The matter rests in the same shape as the subjects above mentioned. Léger says, to summarize the whole thing, that he has no precise information as to what took place in Paris, other than the publication of the treaty and the protocol in the French official gazette, and a dozen telegrams from Chatelain telling him that everything is all right. At present there is no French Minister in Port-au-Prince, and consequently, Léger has no one here with whom he can discuss these matters, as representing the French government. Finally, he does not wish to have it thought that he is sidestepping, evading or unduly delaying, if he is unable to give Lescot immediately categoric answers, or to make them himself to the Legation. He assures me that he is doing everything in his power to answer satisfactorily every one of these matters; that he is embarrassed about it, but that he is taking every possible step to get clear of such embarrassment and to finish with this situation in a way which he hopes will be entirely satisfactory to all concerned. As I said in the beginning, I am transmitting this message at Mr. Léger’s request and on the understanding that he felt it was a perfectly frank statement which, he wished to have brought, unofficially, to your knowledge, pending his official replies to the Department which will be delayed for a few more days. De la Rue


---
## [d616] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3685: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 1, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2:10 p.m.]

97. Department’s telegram No. 63, July 30, 9 p.m. Not printed. Leger has requested de la Rue to transmit the following message to the National City Bank (in bank code): “In order to clarify situation concerning redemption Republic Haiti 1910 loan bonuses [ bonds? ] which remain outstanding at present time please advise immediately by cable to Paris for Banque Union Parisienne that for any quantity still outstanding and unredeemed you guarantee reimbursement bonds of 1910 at the rate of 500 francs each. Confirm existing arrangement or make any new arrangement necessary from bank to bank to put Banque Union Parisienne in position to meet demand reimbursements upon presentation bonds without in any case making prior transfer of deposit to France.”

De Lens Leon Adrien de Lens, the French Minister in Haiti, had left Port-au-Prince for a visit to France in October 1937. returned here yesterday. Leger stated that he will begin conversations with him with regard to the Department’s three points tomorrow or next day. Abel Leger left for Paris direct yesterday.

Finley


---
## [d617] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3687: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 2, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3 p.m.]

98. Leger states that he is informed by de Lens that the French Government to his knowledge considers the 1910 question settled, but in view of the clarity of the matter, he is unaware how his Government would react to a request that this be put in writing. He suggested to Leger that perhaps a statement made to the Department by the French Ambassador at Washington, if that was also agreeable to his Government, would satisfy the Department and Leger has accordingly instructed Lescot to inquire in this sense.

Leger went on to say that no objection had been raised by the French Government to the non-publication here of the protocol but that he had thus far only discussed with de Lens points 2 and 3 in the Department’s memorandum to Lescot.

Finley


---
## [d618] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3701: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 11, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:05 p.m.]

104. Leger informs me that the French Minister called on him yesterday upon instructions from Paris and stated officially that the French Government must insist on the transfer of the 1910 redemption fund to Paris. On the one hand, they would give formal assurances that the money would not be attached or molested in any way and that, pending the presentation of the bonds, it would remain in the name of the Haitian Government. The Minister also stated officially that the French Government considered that the 1910 claim would then be settled and that it would not in future support any action by the bondholders. On the other hand the French Government while making this official statement to Haiti saw no reason for putting this statement in writing.

With reference to the transfer, Leger stated that he informed the American Government that the transfer would not be made only after Chatelain had received the most formal assurances from the French Minister of Foreign Affairs that a theoretical transfer of these funds was quite acceptable. He has now cabled Chatelain as follows (translation).

“French Legation has called upon me to transfer money deposit to French bank in accordance with protocol. Haitian Government following your telegram of June 28 has already given formal assurances to the American Government that transfer would be made only theoretically and the demand of the French Government creates a serious embarrassment for us. See immediately the Minister for Foreign Affairs and recall the verbal agreement of June 28 and explain the inextricable situation resulting from these new demands. Make it known that according to the arrangement of June 28 bearers may immediately obtain total amount for bonds presented for redemption. Cable immediately result of your representations. Leger.”

Leger also stated that de Lens had advised him after he returned here that this theoretical transfer was quite satisfactory to his Government for he had been in Paris when that decision was reached. In response to Leger’s question as to why this new attitude, de Lens stated that he could not discuss the matter further than to make known to Leger his instructions.

Leger said that, in reply, he expressed deep surprise and embarrassment and said that this brought this question to an impasse. The only thing he could recommend was that the French Ambassador in Washington have a talk with the Under Secretary on this subject. De Lens stated that he would so advise his Government.

Finley


---
## [d619] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3704: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 12, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:30 p.m.]

106. My telegram No. 104, August 11, 1 p.m. De la Rue informs me that Leger discussed the French matter with him this morning. Leger said he was almost helpless to combat this new exhibition of French intransigence. He might threaten to denounce the convention but he felt sure that France would immediately accept and the commercial relations between the two countries would be back in the status quo ante . He said that he felt sure a commercial accord with France even if, as seemed probable, no notable advantages to Haiti resulted, was politically important both for the President and for him personally.

Leger stated that the French Government was well aware of the American attitude on these questions, that it had taken its position in face of these known objections and that, save for such limited pressure as he could bring to bear, the affair was necessarily and chiefly one between France and the United States.

Since Leger had already asked de Lens to suggest that discussions be taken up in Washington, de la Rue advised Leger to instruct Lescot to see the Under Secretary at once. He also advised Leger to call me over and ask me to reinforce this. I have not yet been called.

Personally I feel that it would not be wise now to take any action that would bring about The Chargé in Haiti that we were responsible for the denunciation of the convention. The suspicion is just commencing to grow here that the French coffee market is not what it used to be, and that Haiti has gained little if anything by the convention. Until this becomes publicly obvious local reaction against us might be considerable. I also feel strongly that while these latest developments seem to be chargeable to renewed French dissimulation we should not lose sight of the fact that Leger at present is at bottom responsible for all these difficulties. I do not therefore entirely share his views that the affair is now necessarily and chiefly one between France and the United States.

Finley


---
## [d620] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3705: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 13, 1938—noon . [Received 4:20 p.m.]

107. My telegram No. 104, August 11, 1 p.m. Leger states he has received the following reply from Chatelain (translation).

“I reported to you in my cable of June 28 the opinion of Monsieur Delenda, Assistant Director of Commercial Relations, with whom I have been constantly in touch to renew the commercial convention. But it results from a conversation which I have just had with Massigli René Massigli, Director of Political and Commercial Affairs, French Ministry for Foreign Affairs. and de la Baume Renom de la Baume, Adjunct Director of Political and Commercial Affairs, French Ministry for Foreign Affairs. that this opinion is contested by the Ministry of Finance, the association of bearers and the Banque Union Parisienne who claim the transfer in conformity with the protocol. It is recognized that in this there is a great obstacle which it is incumbent on you to lift in the shortest possible delay in order to obtain the good execution of the convention because the funds which are in question are the property of the Haitian Government and have a predetermined purpose. They renew the assurance that the French Government will not tolerate any seizure on the funds thus transferred and they ask you to transmit this assurance to whoever has a right to know it who can also find out about it himself.”

Léger stated that he expected to inform de Lens this morning that Chatelain had evidently been right in assuming that Delenda, with whom he had been dealing throughout the negotiations, spoke for the French Government when he stated that no actual transfer of the redemption fund need be made. Leger is also reminding de Lens that he informed both him (Leger) and President Vincent upon his return here that he knew for a fact that his Government was agreeable to the theoretic transfer.

Leger stated, also, that he expects very forceful opposition to be raised by the French if American merchandise similar in nature to that appearing on list C of the French convention is granted similar treatment. I am now convinced that he expects to endeavor to induce de la Rue to take the step which would grant our goods similar treatment. He will thus be in a position, should the French denounce the convention, to put the blame on the United States. Leger stated quite frankly that if the convention falls, the United States will certainly be blamed by local public opinion; that Lescot had talked rather freely before his departure for the United States on July 13 to the effect that the United States was furious with Leger for permitting the secret protocol. He said the fall of the convention would be a blow to the Government as well, he thought, as to the regard in which the United States is now held here.

Following an inquiry from the Panama Railroad SS Company, I inquired informally from Leger whether the French were prepared now, as they had been in 1935, to consider that coffee shipped from Haiti to New York in American bottoms and there transferred into French would be considered under the documents accompanying the convention as having been shipped in French bottoms. Leger stated that they were not; that they said they were going to put adequate ship’s boats into Port-au-Prince to take their share of coffee shipments. Apparently Leger has accepted this thesis on condition that an adequate number of ships come, and freight rates are no higher. Leger stated that he thought this was a matter concerning which the American Government might wish to protest. He believed that it was only after the intervention of the American Government in Paris in 1935 that the old ruling had been obtained. I shall appreciate instructions.

Finley


---
## [d621] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) Repeated for information to the Embassy in France as Department’s telegram No. 561, August 15, 6 p.m.
838.51/3705: Telegram

Washington , August 15, 1938—7 p.m.

69. Your 107, August 13, noon. The Embassy in Paris has substantially confirmed In telegram No. 1254, August 11, 4 p.m., not printed. the French attitude towards the commercial agreement with Haiti and the 1910 loan as reported in your telegrams 104 of August 11, 1 p.m. and subsequent.

At Mr. Welles’ request, the French Chargé d’Affaires Jacques Truelle. called Saturday morning and was given the views of this Government on the whole question. He was informed that this Government and the Haitian Government have always maintained that a full and just tender of settlement was offered to the 1910 bondholders in 1923, a tender which has been accepted by approximately half of the bondholders; that this Government feels that irrespective of the juridical aspects of the case, the whole structure of Haitian finance as built up with the assistance of this Government rests on the adequacy of that offer; that the French Government had given assurances in 1937 that the commercial agreement and the 1910 loan settlement would be divorced but that subsequently it appeared that the French Government was proceeding as if that divorce had not taken place; that despite the foregoing, this Government, desirous of seeing normal trade relations between Haiti and France, had not voiced its objections to the arrangements contained in the Protocol of Signature of the recently signed Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention.

The Chargé was informed, however, that this Government, in order to safeguard the rights of the bondholders of the 1922 loan, who had subscribed for that loan on the definite assurances of both this Government and the Haitian Government that a full and just tender of settlement had been made to the 1910 bondholders, had insisted that this Government give assurances which would confirm the 1922 bondholders in their position as holders of a first lien on Haitian revenues.

Specifically this Government had asked that the Haitian Government obtain written assurances from the French Government confirming: (1) the verbal arrangement subsequent to the Protocol of Signature that the funds envisaged in paragraph 4 thereof need not be transferred from the National City Bank in New York except as might be necessary to redeem individual bonds as presented; and (2) that the French Government will not support any further claim beyond that envisaged in the protocol on behalf of any 1910 bondholder.

Mr. Welles then expressed his surprise and concern at the attitude now assumed by the French Foreign Office and particularly at the statement attributed to de la Baume that “refusal now on the part of Haiti to live up to its obligation would give rise to a suspicion that there was some ulterior motive behind such refusal”. Finally the Undersecretary outlined our real interest in the economic rehabilitation of Haiti as evidenced by the recent financial arrangement sponsored by the Export-Import Bank at a time of real crisis when it appeared that interests neither French nor American were actively endeavoring to bring Haiti under their influence.

The Chargé promised to bring the substance of the Undersecretary’s remarks to the attention of his Government.

Hull


---
## [d622] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3709: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 25, 1938—noon . [Received 3 p.m.]

111. The French Minister to Haiti called on Leger this morning under instructions from his Government. He stated that formal assurances had been given the Haitian and American Governments that the 1910 redemption fund, when transferred to Paris, would not be attacked [ attached ]. The transfer of this fund was provided for in the protocol to the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention. In order to carry out this provision the French Government would expect the Haitian Government to transfer the fund to Paris by September 10th, failing which, consideration would be given to a suspension of the operation of the convention. Leger understood this as an ultimatum.

Leger stated that in reply he told De Lens that he felt the Haitian Government might not be willing to accept a suspension of the operation of the convention, for once such a practice were established, the French Government might hold the threat of suspension over the Haitian Government at any time when difficulties in the operation of the convention arose. He stated that he could not, of course, speak for the Haitian Government in this matter since he would have to obtain the authority of the President and the Cabinet. For him personally, however, he felt that suspension of the convention by the French would mean its denunciation by Haiti.

Off the record, Leger told me that De Lens had suggested to him informally that he might wish to demand that the National City Bank make the transfer. If the bank declined the fall of the convention might then be attributed directly to American Government. Leger said he told De Lens that he would not consider such a plan unless it were acceptable to the American Government.

Leger inquired very carefully what had been the results of the representations made by the Department to the French. I told him that except for a report of the nature of the representations made by the Under Secretary to Henry Apparently Jacques Truelle, French Chargé, is meant. Truelle had replaced Jules Henry as Counselor of the French Embassy. I had received nothing. He asked particularly to have a report on whatever new results had occurred. I promised to so inform the Department.

Leger informed me yesterday that whereas ten or fifteen 1910 bonds had been presented for redemption monthly for a number of years not a single bond had been so presented since the date of the signature of the Franco-Haitian Commercial Treaty.

Finley


---
## [d623] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3710: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 26, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2:25 p.m.]

113. My number 111, August 25, noon. De la Rue reports that Leger today indicated to him that President Vincent agrees that Haiti will be obliged to denounce the French convention in case France invokes its suspension. As the Legation has previously reported, Leger will almost certainly endeavor to place the onus of this affair on us. De la Rue understands that Leger may now write to the National City Bank inquiring whether it perceives objection to the transfer of the 1910 redemption fund to Paris. Leger will wish, of course, to use this reply (if it is suitable) to save his own face vis-à-vis Haitian public opinion.

It is suggested that perhaps the National City Bank might be warned of the possibility of this manoeuver and the implications involved.

Finley


---
## [d624] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3710: Telegram

Washington , August 29, 1938—7 p.m.

72. Telegrams 111 August 25, noon, and 113, August 26, 1 p.m. For your information only. In reply to the representation made by the Under Secretary, the French Government has informed this Government that in view of the agreement of the Haitian Government to the transfer of the 1910 redemption fund to Paris it will insist upon its transfer. Through the French Embassy here it has informed the Department that the fund when transferred will not be attached. The Department does not consider this oral statement in any sense as a “formal assurance”, or in any way as modifying its objections to the transfer of the deposit.

The Department is now engaged in a study to ascertain the precise legal status of the redemption fund. The attorneys for the National City Bank are doing likewise. You will be informed promptly of the results of these studies.

Hull


---
## [d625] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3716: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 30, 1938—11 a.m. [Received 1:48 p.m.]

115. Department’s instruction 72, August 29, 7 p.m. Leger sent for me this morning and inquired whether I had received any indication as to what the Department intends to do with reference to the discussions. He said he felt sure that if the Department desired to do so, it could bring enough pressure on France to save the convention. He personally believed it should be saved for he foresaw a certain psychological reaction in case it is terminated and that, even if all of Haiti’s coffee could be sold elsewhere, he looked for a drop in prices immediately French competition disappeared. He intimated that the President was very much more worried about this matter than he was because “the President is permanent and I am only temporary”. The President he said would have to bear the brunt of the affair.

I said that I had no information as to the Department’s intentions but would inform him as soon as anything had been received.

Leger expressed regret that Abel Leger, who has already arrived in France, will not be able to present his credentials and make his contacts in time to accomplish anything before September 10. He hesitated giving any instructions to Chatelain because he did not wish to have any action that he might take conflict with the Department’s representations.

I gathered that Leger is considering tendering his resignation in case the French convention falls.

Finley


---
## [d626] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3720: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 1, 1938—noon . [Received 3 p.m.]

117. President Vincent sent for me this morning and let me read Lescot’s despatch in which he reported that he had been officially informed by the Department that Haiti must decide for itself whether or not the 1910 redemption fund would be transferred to Paris. In case, however, that it was decided to transfer the fund, the United States would have to consider revamping its whole policy with respect to Haiti in the interests of the 1922 holders.

The President began by saying that there was now quite a good indication that the advantages obtained by Haiti in the Franco-Haitian convention were extremely limited. Exporters had reported to him that they were obtaining better coffee prices in New York; they had complained to him about the necessity of buying French sacks and also of shipping in French bottoms which came so infrequently to Haitian ports. In addition he could not understand the French attitude toward the transfer of the redemption fund and he could not help but believe that there was something behind the matter which did not meet the eye.

In any event, the President said that when it came to a question of going with France or with the United States there was simply no question in his mind. He recalled briefly the history of Haiti’s financial and commercial relations with France; said that time after time the opportunity had been offered to France to take an interest in Haiti’s prosperity and welfare; time after time they had failed to use their opportunities. Haiti’s relations with France had been a series of incidents in which France had taken advantage of Haiti’s weakness; with France had been [ sic ] sought to benefit by taking advantage of Haiti’s well known cultural sentiments for that country. He, the President, had a French culture and sympathy but he declined to let this sympathy influence what he knew were the practical needs of his country.

The United States on innumerable occasions had given practical examples of its fair—and often disinterested—attitude toward Haiti and its problems. He emphasized that he would not permit this French matter to disturb this relationship.

The President stated that Abel Leger had presented his letters of credence in Paris yesterday, and that he had cabled him to do what he possibly could to get the French to change their attitude. He hardly hoped for any success since even with the French they had remained quite intransigent.

Monsieur Vincent added that the only difficulty was the psychological effect which the denunciation of the convention might have here. He did not fear any reaction from the business element; the widely held sentiment for France which was evident on every side here would be hurt. He did not think, however, that the reaction would be very serious.

I asked the President whether his Government would feel obliged to make a public statement here of the reasons for the denunciation in case that came about. He said he supposed that a statement would have to be made explaining the matter but that he still had 9 days in which to think this over. He added that he had informed the French Minister here of the substance of his decision; that the French Minister had invited him to dinner on September 8 and that he was rather afraid this would turn out to be a somewhat dismal function.

Finley


---
## [d627] The Third Secretary of Legation in Haiti ( Bacon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/231: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 9, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2 p.m.]

121. Leger informed me today that he intends next Tuesday to refuse a demand for restitution of custom duties made by an importer of American pharmaceutical products who claims most-favored-nation treatment for United States products intrinsically similar to French products imported under existing treaty with France. I pointed out that my Government had every reason to expect most-favored-nation treatment. Leger said that although he expected a protest he could not act otherwise at present in view of continuing delicate Franco-Haitian negotiations. De la Rue expresses the opinion that Leger is acting without knowledge of President Vincent, and that refusal might be forestalled.

Bacon


---
## [d628] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3713: Telegram

Washington , September 12, 1938—7 p.m.

75. Your 121, September 9, 1 p.m. Please take up this question immediately with the Foreign Minister and reiterate strongly that your Government expects that American products upon importation into Haiti will receive the same customs treatment as that accorded to intrinsically similar products imported from France. If Leger does not agree to extend such treatment, you are authorized in your discretion to take up the matter with President Vincent.

You may refer to the specific case on which Leger will make his decision tomorrow, provided you are satisfied that the pharmaceutical products in question are in fact intrinsically similar to French products included in Franco-Haitian treaty.

Hull


---
## [d629] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3736: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 27, 1938—noon . [Received 1 p.m.]

132. My despatch No. 295, September 23. Not printed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has just given me the following telegram from Abel Léger, Paris.

(Translation) “Following your last cable describing new situation, I have conferred today with National City Bank and Foreign Office. Accord reached on following basis: Banque de L’Union to facilitate settlement will receive bonds and present them for reimbursement at Paris branch. Payment by the latter upon presentation.”

The Minister for Foreign Affairs favors this arrangement as being in effect the method already existing.

I have discussed this with Pixley. We see no objections to the arrangement. I should appreciate a reply by cable.

Mayer


---
## [d630] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3736: Telegram

Washington , September 28, 1938—4 p.m.

78. Your 132, September 27, 12 noon. You may inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that while this Government still awaits formal assurances from the Haitian Government in reply to its memorandum handed to the Haitian Minister in Washington on July 16, covering the 1910 loan question, it is not prepared to interpose any objection at this point to the proposed Accord mentioned in your telegram under reference provided that in effect this proposed Accord does not alter the method already in existence which was based upon the Inter-Bank Agreement of 1923.

Hull


---
## [d631] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3740: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , October 10, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 3:48 p.m.]

137. The Department’s 75, September 12, 7 p.m. Change of Cabinet, absence of President Vincent in the country and especially the reluctance of the Haitian Government to deny the French Government’s demand for “privileged treatment” for certain “specialties” have all tended to slow up the solution of this question. Meanwhile, I have kept pressing the new Minister of Foreign Affairs. Leon Laleau. While declaring unequivocally our interest in the maintenance of most-favored-nation treatment in all its integrity as the basic principle of our trade agreement with Haiti and the whole trade agreement policy I have felt it wise to proceed carefully in the hope that the decision might shortly be in our favor without unduly embarrassing Haitian-French relations and possibly placing us in the position of having to take the blame for any cancellation of the new Franco-Haitian Treaty of Commerce should this eventuate.

In a number of recent informal discussions with the Minister of Foreign Affairs the latter has recognized the legal justness of our position and expressed the desire to give us complete satisfaction. He feels, however, embarrassed vis-à-vis the French after their having already been defeated in the attempt to get the transfer to Paris of the fund for the payment of the 1910 loan. There is also the question of the written assurances regarding the 1910 matter. In this regard I understand the Quai d’Orsay has told Abel Leger that they consider this request as evidencing our desire to bring about the cancellation of the new Franco-Haitian Treaty of Commerce. I am inclined to believe that it would make it easier for the Haitian Government to fall in with our desires concerning the carrying out of the most-favored-nation clause and tend to avoid cancellation of French convention if you could authorize me to inform Laleatz [ Laleau ] substantially in the manner of the Department’s 78, September 28, 4 p.m. saying that while we continued to desire formal assurances from the Haitian Government with regard to the 1910 question we do not propose to press this matter at the present time, et cetera, et cetera.

I continue to believe it is wise for us to proceed cautiously in all this affair. We have won out thus far in the related 1910 loan affair. While maintaining the basic principle involved it might be desirable to compromise somewhat on certain of the corollary aspects. I say this because I believe it would be against our interests to have to take the blame for the denunciation of the Franco-Haitian treaty if this can be reasonably avoided. From another angle I believe that it would be advantageous for us to have this treaty be in effect for the next year or two since the flow of Haitian trade seems setting strongly toward the United States with especial reference to coffee, that within the fairly near future and except for a few luxury articles, Haitian trade with France will be increasingly inconsequential and the question of the Franco-Haitian Treaty of Commerce relatively academic.

I am told that the Haitian Government is likewise to cite in support of privileged treatment for France in respect to certain specialty imports the fact that we also depart from our basic principles when it is to our advantage; for example, our recent wheat subsidy legislation. I should appreciate an answer I may give to the Haitian Government on this point if raised as well as the Department’s general cabled instructions concerning the whole matter described above.

Mayer


---
## [d632] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3740: Telegram

Washington , October 12, 1938—1 p.m.

81. Your 137, October 10, 1 p.m., and the Minister’s letter of October 7, 1938 to Duggan. Latter not found in Department files. You may inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this Government is surprised and greatly disappointed at the continued delay on the part of the Haitian Government to extend to American goods similar in character to certain French goods covered in the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention, the most-favored-nation treatment clearly set forth in our trade agreement with Haiti. You may add that not only is such most-favored-nation treatment the basic principle of our whole commercial policy but that the hesitation of Haiti to honor its pledged word could not fail to have a most unfortunate repercussion should that fact become generally known to the public in this country and elsewhere in the Americas.

In the Department’s opinion the fact that the 1910 loan settlement was included in a protocol of signature to the Franco-Haitian Convention regulating commerce between the two countries cannot alter this Government’s contention previously set forth many times to both the Haitian Government and the French Government that these two matters are unrelated. It was partially with this end in view that this Government undertook conversations with the French Government during the past 2 years seeking to disassociate the two subjects and later expressed its disappointment that contrary to the verbal assurances of the then Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs the 1910 loan agreement was mentioned in the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention.

You may add that while this Government does not wish to embarrass unduly the Haitian Government at this time, it cannot help but express the opinion that had these last named assurances of the Haitian Government been honored in fact, the present difficult situation with regard to the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention would not have arisen. You may say to the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs that while this Government continues to desire the formal assurances in reply to its memorandum of July 16, it feels that the more immediate issue is that of prompt extension of most-favored-nation treatment for American goods.

For your own information it may be added that this Government has no intention at this time of pressing a demand for the formal assurances with regard to the 1910 loan, provided that the more recent arrangement continues to work satisfactorily. However, the Department is doubtful of the wisdom of permitting the Haitian Government to gain the impression that it may with impunity disregard its previous reiterated though verbal assurances with regard to the 1910 loan.

Hull


---
## [d633] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3742: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , October 14, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2:54 p.m.]

139. Department’s telegram No. 81, October 12, 1 p.m. In carrying out the Department’s instructions today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs informs me that the Haitian Government agrees to our Government’s interpretation of our trade agreement, intends to honor its pledged word, make the necessary restitutions to American importers here, and extend to American imports of similar character to certain French goods covered in the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention, the most-favored-nation treatment.

The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he would take the necessary action toward this end on the morning of October 26 and would notify me that he had done so. The Haitian Government desires to wait until this date in view of the fact that the meeting scheduled to take place with the French Minister in connection with a regular discussion of the Franco-Haitian trade convention is set for October 25.

Mayer



# CHAPTER [ch32] Engagement of United States Army Officers to serve as military advisers to the Garde d’Haiti

---
## [d634] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/347

No. 185 Port-au-Prince , June 3, 1938 . [Received June 6.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 175 of May 28, 1938, concerning Haitian-Dominican relations. Despatch not printed; for correspondence on this subject, see pp. 178 ff. President Vincent called me over to the Palace this morning to tell me, in great confidence, his suspicions concerning President Trujillo’s aggressive designs against Haiti.

President Vincent spoke at some length very much in the same vein as the Minister for Foreign Affairs Georges Léger. had discussed the matter with me on May 28, expressing the hope that we would be willing to approve certain reasonable expenditures to renew the outworn armament of the Garde.

I told the President that of course it was a fact that the Garde was not armed in modern fashion, and this doubtless needed certain attention, and I felt certain the United States would understand and view this matter sympathetically in principle. Certain aspects of the situation, however, occurred to me and I felt certain he had himself already considered these. For example, if President Vincent’s suspicions regarding Trujillo were well founded,—President Vincent had just said that Trujillo was certainly not a normal man—would not an increase in the armament of the Garde, be it ever so reasonable, excite such an abnormal mind, perhaps giving it just the pretext it wanted and the provocation it would assume for taking precipitate action against Haiti? Secondly, it was a very serious step to start rearming, even from as low a scale as was now Haiti’s position and even with the justification from every point of view. I continued by saying that my own recent experience in Europe, especially at Geneva, had convinced me how serious a step this was, since the country or countries against which you are trying to create a just defense will never let the matter rest there, but will cap your moderate rearmament with just that much more in their own case, leading to an endless chain of arms competition, the conclusion of which is either war or national bankruptcy or limitation of armament. I asked President Vincent whether he had considered the last alternative as the first to be sought, namely, had he tried to discuss with the Dominican Republic the question of an arms limitation or an arms equalization arrangement. In fact, the limitation of armament of the two countries is mentioned among the essential provisions of the Agreement signed by the Haitian and Dominican delegates in Washington on January 31 for the settlement of the so-called Haitian-Dominican affair. President Vincent said that he recognized the correctness of what I had been saying but that he felt certain it would be impossible to come to any arrangement of this sort with Trujillo, implying that he had already made an effort in this direction unsuccessfully, and believed that the only alternative was to modernize the Garde’s armament. At this point President Vincent explained that new armament for the Garde was not only necessary from the point of view of possible Dominican aggression but also because the morale of the Garde and the internal policing of the country demanded this effort.

President Vincent said that he could scarcely feel that there could be any provocation in his desire to start modernizing the armament of the Garde and that he felt it very desirable, indeed necessary, to do something along this line in order at least to hold off an invasion for a few weeks until help could come to Haiti from the outside, as well as for the question of internal order alluded to above. I told President Vincent that naturally I would give most serious consideration to any detailed recommendation with regard to the armament necessities of the Garde which he might care to present to me for transmission to my Government.

I then saw the Minister for Foreign Affairs on another subject and he showed me a memorandum with respect to the modernization of the armament of the Garde and the Dominican threat which he had prepared for the President. M. Léger is furnishing me with a copy of this memorandum which I shall forward with a later despatch.

As a result of this memorandum, M. Léger said that the President had yesterday convoked himself, the Commandant of the Garde, Colonel Andre. the Minister of the Interior Christian Lanoue. and, I believe, Major Armand, head of the Palace Guard, to discuss the Dominican situation. M. Léger said that he found the other members attending this meeting of exactly the same mind as himself, as they considered that the situation was a really serious one and required action on Haiti’s part. In this relation, the conferees discussed the question of asking for a small commission of American military experts to come to Haiti and give the Government here the benefit of their advice concerning the Garde, et cetera. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he expected to make some concrete, formal suggestions to me in this regard in the next few days. In discussing this phase of the matter, M. Léger said they did not intend to ask for a commission to take over the command of the Garde but rather to have a check up on the Garde situation, now that it had been some years since they had started out on their own, an action which they all thought would be beneficial. I told M. Léger that I should be glad to receive any request he might care to make for the consideration of my Government. I was not in a position to say, of course, what the Department’s attitude would be with regard to sending a military mission here. I felt confident, however, that should they fall in with any such initiative on the part of the Haitian Government it could only be in an advisory capacity and not in an executive one since, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs well knew, our policy was toward relinquishment of control in Haitian affairs rather than the contrary. M. Léger said that, of course, he understood this and felt certain that we had the same ideas in this respect.

In conclusion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the President had decided, on his suggestion, to have a meeting of the same group, namely, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Interior and members of the Garde, at least every two weeks and go over the Haitian-Dominican situation. M. Léger said the President felt this particularly desirable since, during his recent trip to Cape Haitian, the local Garde officers had communicated to him how uneasy they had all begun to feel again with regard to Trujillo’s designs. I might add that, in a recent trip to Cape Haitian, Mr. Zetek, an American agricultural expert, reported the same thing to me.

As I believe I have indicated informally to the Department, I am rather opposed in principle to military missions, since they are frequently hard to handle and, unless the personnel are well chosen, can create great confusion and difficulty, being occasionally more trouble than they are worth. On the other hand, as I have also indicated to the Department, there may be certain situations when the contrary is the case and their presence in a foreign country is desirable. This would be true for Haiti in my opinion if we considered, as I do under the circumstances, that the presence of an American military mission in Haiti would be an indirect protection for Haiti by preventing Trujillo from executing toward Haiti any of his quite possibly aggressive ideas. If this is the case, it might also be said correctly that the presence of a military mission here would be by way of being a certain real assurance against hostilities on this island which could only have most undesirable repercussions through Pan America and create a position of especial embarrassment for us. To the same end, the presence of an American military mission here would also indirectly act as a stabilizing factor in the internal political situation.

I shall comment further in the matter if and when the question of an American military mission should actually materialize.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d635] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.20/10: Telegram

Washington , June 11, 1938—2 p.m.

42. Your despatch no. 185, of June 3. The Department after due consideration authorizes you to continue in your discretion conversations with respect to an American Military Mission for the Garde d’Haiti. You may say that while the initiative must in any case come from the Haitian Government, this Government would be prepared to consider sympathetically any request that the Haitian Government might make for such a mission.

It is the Department’s idea that any military mission to Haiti would, as you have said to Leger, serve in an advisory rather than an executive capacity, and that in all matters of policy it would subordinate itself to the Legation.

Hull


---
## [d636] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/11: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , June 13, 1938—3 p.m. [Received 6:40 p.m.]

62. Department’s telegram of June 11, 2 p.m. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, after consultation with the President, has requested me officially to inform you that the Haitian Government desires an American military mission for the Garde d’Haiti to act in an advisory capacity. Details as to the number of officers, their qualifications, et cetera, will be communicated shortly.

In making this request Leger gave me a further confidential message from the Haitian Minister at Ciudad Trujillo Abel Léger. (see my despatch 185 of June 3) in substance as follows: “Information in previous message (my despatch No. 185, June 3) again recently confirmed from a responsible source. … Alluding to Mussolini restoring Italian honor in Africa, Trujillo recalled that his country had submitted to Haitian occupation during a whole generation; shortly the President of the Dominican Republic will have to take his oath of office in Haitian Congress. A steamship recently brought bombs to Ciudad Trujillo from the United States. Ten thousand bayonets have been distributed in the Cibao. Unless instructed formally Abel Leger considered it unwise to mention the modernization of the armament of the Garde until the new weapons have arrived (this refers to a suggestion Georges Léger recently made to the Minister at Ciudad Trujillo that in order to prevent a misunderstanding the subject of modernization of armaments should be mentioned to Trujillo).”

My impression is that the prompt arrival of a military mission here is desired. I expect to communicate further details shortly. I venture to suggest that the Department advise me by telegraph of its decision.

Mayer


---
## [d637] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.20/11: Telegram

Washington , June 16, 1938—7 p.m.

46. Your 62, June 13, 3 p.m. You may inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this Government, after consideration of the official request of the Haitian Government for an American Military Mission to act in an advisory capacity with respect to the Garde d’Haiti is pleased to agree in principle to furnish such a mission.

For your strictly confidential information the Department is giving consideration to the question whether the members of this mission should be chosen from the Army or from the Marine Corps and would be pleased to receive any views that you may care to submit in this connection.

Hull


---
## [d638] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/14

No. 208 Port-au-Prince , June 23, 1938 . [Received June 25.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 62 of June 13, 3 p.m., and the Department’s No. 46 of June 16, 7 p.m., with regard to the furnishing by our Government of a military mission to Haiti to act in an advisory capacity with respect to the Garde d’Haiti.

The Minister for Foreign Affairs brought up this subject again yesterday. He explained that he and President Vincent had been considering the question of publicity with regard to this matter and had felt that it was desirable to have some preparation. President Vincent and M. Léger have in mind that it would be undesirable to announce the arrangement with regard to a military mission more or less simultaneously with the new public works operation. Knowing these people, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, he was afraid that if these two matters were announced together there might be some misunderstanding in public opinion to the effect that the “imposition” of a military mission was the price for the public works operations. In order to prevent any possibility of this, President Vincent believed it would be desirable to wait until the agreement had been signed for the public works matter and then, within a few days or a week thereafter, President Vincent would make a speech in which he would discuss the disorganization in the Garde, occasioned by the recent socalled Calixte plot, In December 1937 an unsuccessful attempt was made by a number of junior officers of the Haitian Garde to assassinate Major Durcé Armand, commander of the Palace Garde, and a fellow officer. Colonel D. P. Calixte, the former commandant of the Haitian Garde, was regarded as the instigator of the plot against Major Armand and of an alleged plot to seize control of the Government. He fled the country, but his nephew and 15 other officers were tried; the nephew was executed; 4 others were sentenced to death, and 12 were imprisoned. The death sentences were later commuted by the President to imprisonment. (838.00/3396, 3407, 3411, 3415, 3417.) and state the desirability of having military experts here for a general review of the Garde organization and its modernization, et cetera. In this way President Vincent felt that the question of a military mission would be properly attributed to the Garde situation rather than possibly, inaccurately and unfortunately, to a bargain with respect to the projected public works operation.

I believe this is a wise attitude on the part of the Haitian Government and is also desirable from our point of view. Haiti being the queer place it is, misunderstandings might arise, as the President indicated, if the question of a military mission is not handled carefully and in the manner indicated by President Vincent as desirable.

Incidentally, M. Léger volunteered the statement that there was no question of any change of heart on the part of the Haitian Government with regard to a military mission. On the contrary, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said they were increasingly anxious to have this mission and to have it at the earliest date practicable. In all the circumstances, I am inclined to believe that this is true.

The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that he understood that President Vincent intended to speak to me about this matter shortly. I may, therefore, have other details to report to the Department at an early date.

Respectfully yours,

Ferdinand L. Mayer


---
## [d639] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/17: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 25, 1938—1 p.m. [Received 2:30 p.m.]

91. President Vincent informs me that he will not publicly propose the military mission until next week. The new budget which is being submitted to the Legislature on July 27 will make a small additional appropriation for the Garde and this may silence local criticism that the Government has not sufficiently provided for the maintenance of the efficiency of this institution. Thereafter he feels that it will be opportune to request the mission.

I believe that there is no intention to delay this matter arbitrarily but that the President wishes to have the local atmosphere right before he makes his plan public.

Finley


---
## [d640] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/19: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 27, 1938—11 a.m. [Received 1:35 p.m.]

94. Leger sent for me this morning and said that the anxiety which the Haitian Government felt concerning the continued truculence of President Trujillo and the fear that some border incident might occur had convinced the President that he should ask for an American military mission without delay. The President expects to announce this intention on Garde Day, August 1, Leger will confirm this in a note to be dated August 2, the text of which he will show me in advance. He stated that his purpose in calling me in this morning was to give us notice of their intention so that the mission might come at the earliest possible date. He felt that an incident on the border might make it difficult from a political viewpoint both here and in the United States to send the mission.

Leger stated that they would invite in the first instance three officers. One would be asked to review the armaments of the Garde with a view to replenishing equipment within the limited means at Haiti’s disposal. One would be asked to supervise the reopening of an officers school. They were now about thirty officers short as a result of the recent court martials and separations. One would be an adviser to the Commandant and would be asked to prepare plans, et cetera, for any emergencies that might be requested if their services were found necessary. For the moment, he thought three would be enough and the President wished particularly to avoid local criticism to the effect that the Americans had taken charge of Garde again.

With respect to the question as to whether the mission should be from the Marines or from the Army, Leger stated that this was a matter of complete indifference to the Haitian Government—that one would be as satisfactory as the other, and that he understood that questions of policy might lead us to prefer one over the other. The important thing was that the mission should come very soon.

Finley


---
## [d641] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/21: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 1, 1938—noon . [Received 1:15 p.m.]

96. President Vincent in a speech to the Garde this morning informed them that the Government had made arrangements to have a small American military mission come to Haiti. Leger states he will give me a note tomorrow confirming the desire of the Haitian Government to receive this mission.

Reaction in the Garde is understood to be favorable for the most part. One or two officers are understood to have contrary views.

Finley


---
## [d642] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/22: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 2, 1938—2 p.m. [Received 4:20 p.m.]

99. In announcing to the Garde his decision to request an American military mission, President Vincent stated he was requesting two—not three—American officers. Leger today in handing me a note which likewise contained a request for two instead of three officers intimated that the President at the last moment had felt that it was more advisable politically at this moment to request two than three. The President had nevertheless asked him to explain to me that the Haitian Government would ask for the third officer within two or three months since they were sure that three were needed. The first two were wanted as soon as possible.

The note containing the request (a copy of which will be transmitted the next air mail) states that the Haitian Government has decided to reopen the military school. The two officers requested would be asked to direct this school and at the same time to give the general staff technical advice “in all that concerns the betterment and the progress of the present organization of the Garde”.

The note also inquires under what terms these officers will be furnished.

The President specifically stated in his speech to the Garde that he had requested American regular Army officers.

I would appreciate instructions as to what reply should be made.

Finley


---
## [d643] The Chargé in Haiti ( Bacon ) to the Secretary of State
838.20/37

No. 293 Port-au-Prince , September 16, 1938 . [Received September 19.]

Sir : I have the honor to inform the Department that Lieutenant Colonel Samuel J. Heidner and Captain Douglas B. Smith of the United States Military Mission arrived in Port-au-Prince by plane on September 16, 1938. They were met by Colonel André, Commandant of the Haitian Garde, and his Staff, and the Officers of this Legation.

President Vincent has requested to see these Officers as soon as possible, and I have arranged to take them to the Palace to introduce them to the President at 10 a.m., September 17.

Respectfully yours,

J. Kenly Bacon
