# Papers Relating to Foreign Affairs, Accompanying the Annual Message of the President to the First Session Thirty-eighth Congress, Part I
Fuente: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HistoryAtState/frus/master/volumes/frus1863p1.xml
Extracción: capítulos, subcapítulos o secciones cuyo encabezado menciona Dominican/Haiti/Hayti/Santo Domingo/Trujillo/Port-au-Prince/Dajabón/Massacre River, más documentos sueltos con dos o más menciones.


---
## [d93] Mr. Adams to Mr. Seward .
No. 334.] Legation of the United States , London, February 26, 1863.

Sir: I have received, since the date of my last, despatches from the department numbered from 467 to 472, both inclusive.

In relation to the subject referred to in your No. 467, of the 3d of February, I have to report that I have as yet made no change from the course marked out in my despatch (No. 327) of the 19th instant, as I prefer to wait for the answer to the great meeting at Exeter Hall on the 29th of last month.

In the mean time further manifestations of the popular feeling are coming to hand. I have the honor to transmit another address from Aberdane, in South Wales, together with resolutions passed at meetings held at Oldham and at Rawtenstall, in Lancashire, Luddenden Foot, Yorkshire, Paisley and Edinburgh, in Scotland, and Carlisle, in Cumberland, together with copies of newspapers containing full reports of the proceedings at several of these places.

I have appointed to-morrow, Friday, at 3 o’clock, as the time to receive a deputation from Birmingham, charged with an address signed by many thousand names, which, should it come in season for the bag, you will find accompanying the papers already mentioned.

With respect to the enclosures accompanying my No. 298, the absence of which you note in your No. 468, of the 3d of February, I find, on inquiry of Mr. Moran, my secretary, that they had been addressed to the President. Hence I infer that they must have taken their destination to him before they were identified at the department.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.

Hon. William H. Seward , Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures and accompanying documents.] 1. Resolutions from second meeting at Aberdane, February 5, 1863. 2. Resolutions from second meeting at Oldham, February 18, 1863. 3. Resolutions from second meeting at Rawtenstall, February 18, 1863. 4. Resolutions from second meeting at Luddenden Foot, February 19, 1863. 5. Resolutions from second meeting at Paisley, Scotland, February 16, 1863. 6. Resolutions from second meeting at Edinburgh, February 19, 1863. 7. Resolutions from meeting at Carlisle, February 19, 1863. 8. Weekly Herald, February 21, 1863. 9. Burg. Times, Lancashire, February 21, 1863. 10. Carlisle Examiner, February 21, 1863. 11. Manchester Examiner and Times, February 25, 1863. 12. Address to President of 13,500 inhabitants of Birmingham. 13. Resolutions passed at Menthy Tedfil, February 2, 1863. 14. Address to President from same. 15. Memorandum with Birmingham address. Resolutions at Edinburgh. Copy of resolutions passed at a large and enthusiastic meeting of the workingmen of Edinburgh , held in Brighton Street Chapel on Thursday , February 19, 1863 . First. Resolution moved by Mr. George Lorimer, and seconded by Mr. Reid: “That regarding American slavery in all its phases with the deepest abhorrence as a most iniquitous and indefensible system, this meeting hereby declares it has no sympathy with any slaveholding interest, either at home or abroad.” Second. Resolution moved by Mr. David Lewis, and seconded by Mr. Sommerville: “That remembering the anti-slavery opinions avowed by President Lincoln during his election contest, the manifest tendency of his present emancipation policy, his onerous, difficult, and critical position as President of the United States, this meeting accords to him its tribute of approbation, in the hope and belief that he will take advantage of every circumstance which may arise to carry out his expressed personal wish that freedom may be given to every slave throughout the entire Union.” Third. Resolution moved by Mr. Thomas Menzies, and seconded by Mr. A. Keddie: “That this meeting deprecates the idea that this country should ever be on terms of intimate alliance with the slaveholding confederacy of America, as was confidently anticipated by Mr. Mason, agent from the confederate administration at the late banquet of the lord mayor of London; and in the name of the working classes of Edinburgh protest against the statement of Mr. Mason, there made, that he had been received with honor and welcome by all classes of the British people.” Fourth. Resolution moved by Mr. George C. Stewart, and seconded by Mr. Ker: “That copies of these resolutions, subscribed by the chairman on behalf of the meeting, be transmitted to Earl Russell, and also to the American ambassador in London, to be forwarded by him to the President of the United States.” JOHN BEATON, Secretary of United Trades Council. Resolutions at Luddenden Foot. At a crowded meeting of operatives and others in the school-room, Congregational church, Luddenden Foot, Halifax, under the pastorate of the Rev. Aikin Hall, after a lecture by the Rev. Newman Hall, on Thursday, February 19, 1863, it was proposed by Jonathan Monley and seconded by Nathan Culpan, and carried unanimously and with great enthusiasm— That this meeting expresses their abhorrence of slavery; their hope that no empire expressly founded on slavery as its corner-stone will ever be recognized by this country; their cordial sympathy with President Lincoln and the friends of emancipation in America; and their willingness to continue to suffer privations arising from the short supply of cotton, rather than have again to rely on slave-grown produce. Signed on behalf of the meeting. JOSEPH BATTOMLEY, Chairman. [Memorandum accompanying the address from the inhabitants of Birmingham.] The committee that waited on Mr. Adams consisted of Mr. Charles Sturge, mayor of Birmingham; Mr. Geo. Edmonds, clerk of the peace; Mr. Wm. Morgan, Mr. J. A. Partridge, and Mr. James Taylor, jr. The address was signed by 13,500 persons, twenty-eight of them being members of the town council, and of these twenty-eight, eleven are aldermen and seven have filled the office of mayor. These facts were furnished by Mr. John Bright, M. P., who came with the delegation. United States Legation , London , February 27, 1863 . Address from Aberdane. To the honorable Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States: Honorable Sir : The following resolution was unanimously and most enthusiastically carried at a very large and crowded public meeting held on the 5th instant at Ebenezer Independent Chapel, Aberdane, South Wales, presided over by the Rev. W. Edwards, minister of the place, with a request that it be signed by the chairman on the behalf of the meeting, and forwarded to your honor through your agent in London: Resolved , That this meeting heartily unite in the general joy and thanksgiving which has been called forth by the proclamation issued by the President of the United States on the 1st of January, 1863, by which more than three millions of slaves in the United States were declared thenceforward and forever free; and are of opinion that the promulgation of that decree, founded not less on justice than on the undeniable right of the slaves, entitles Mr. Lincoln to the sympathy, encouragement, and moral support of all the friends of freedom throughout the world; and they further wish to express their admiration of the wisdom and the courage which characterizes his administration since he has been conducted to the presidential office, and their prayer is for the preservation of the Union and total emancipation of the slaves, which, alone, in their opinion, is the political salvation of the United States. Signed on behalf of the meeting by W. EDWARDS, Chairman. February 18, 1863 . [Untitled] To the honorable C. F. Adams, ambassador of the United States: Sir: Allow me to intrust the above resolution of sympathy with the President of the United States to your care, and beg of you to forward the same to his honor. There is a very great and general sympathy in the principality of Wales with the United States in their present difficulty; and, indeed, a very great rejoicing at the President’s proclamation to emancipate the slaves. There may be here and there in Wales some few, very few indeed, sympathizers with the south, but a national sympathy with the north. Your honor’s most humble servant, &c., W. EDWARDS, Independent Minister. Meirion Cottage , Aberdane , South Wales , February 18, 1863 . Resolutions at Oldham, County of Lancaster, England. Resolutions adopted at a public meeting held in the Town Hall, Oldham , on the 18th February , 1863 , Thomas Emmott, esq., chairman. To the honorable Charles Francis Adams, American ambassador, London: 1 st resolution , That this meeting is of opinion that the great aim and object of the leaders of the southern rebellion is to perpetuate and extend the curse of slavery, and thereby retard the course of human progress; while the Lincoln government, as by the prohibition of slavery in the Territories, the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the recognition of the rights of citizenship of the black man, and, more than all, by the emancipation proclamation, show to the world that its object is to sustain the cause of freedom and free labor. Therefore, Resolved , That our sympathies are due, and are hereby freely given, to President Lincoln and his government in their efforts to suppress this wicked and unjustifiable rebellion. 2 d resolution , That this meeting desires to express its grateful appreciation of the noble conduct of the people of the United States, who, whilst themselves suffering the evils resulting from the terrible ordeal through which their country is passing, have generously manifested their sympathy with our distress by sending the noble ship the George Griswold freighted with a full cargo of food for free distribution amongst our suffering population, thus showing that the heart of the people of both countries is still moved by sympathy and mutual good will. Resolved , That a copy of the foregoing resolutions be transmitted to the American ambassador at London. Signed on behalf of the chairman, THOMAS EMMOTT, Esq., Belmont Terrace, Middleton road, Oldham. GEORGE CROMPTON, Hon. Secretary. Resolution at Merthyr Tydfil, South Wales. Negro emancipation. At a large and influential meeting, held at the Tabernacle chapel, Merthyr Tydfil, South Wales, on the above subject, on Monday, the 2d day of February, 1863, the following resolution was proposed by the Rev. Ginesyn Jones, and seconded by Mr. Henry Thomas, and carried unanimously: “That this meeting, being convinced that slavery is the cause of the tremendous struggle now going on in the American States, and being further convinced that the object of the southern States is to found a government to perpetuate, strengthen, and extend chattel slavery within their territory, earnestly prays that such object may be frustrated, and that the emancipation policy of the President may be carried out till not a slave be left on the American soil, and that a copy of this resolution be sent to his excellency the President of the United States.” CHARLES H. JAMES, Chairman. BENJAMIN HAD WIN GILBANKS, Hon. Sec’y. Address at Merthyr Tydfil. Negro emancipation. [From a public meeting held at Merthyr Tydfil, Glamorganshire, South Wales] To his excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States: Sir: It is in no corporate capacity, but simply as an assembly of Englishmen, that we venture to address to you a few words of sympathy and fraternal regard. We deeply deplore the calamity which has fallen upon your country, and earnestly desire to see a stop put to the fearful struggle now raging in America, sincerely hoping that the system of slavery, which has been the chief cause of the war, may be buried with it. We are bound to confess that there has ever been a misgiving in our minds when we remember that there was an inconsistency or incongruity between your avowed principle of liberty and the existence among you of the worst form of human despotism, and that we have ever believed that such dreadful injustice in the course of Providence would be avenged. We would assure you of our full appreciation of the heavy burden of responsibility now resting upon you, and of our sympathy with you in all measures which have for their object the extinction of slavery, and rejoice to believe that, in spite of all that has been said or written, there exists between the United States and Great Britain a sound basis of cordial amity which will be cemented and extended by the success of those measures in erasing this injurious blot from your Constitution. Praying that you may be carried through the fiery trial to which you are subjected, and that you may be spared to reap the harvest of freedom and peace, we trust that, in the triumph of right and justice, your sorrowing widows and bereaved mothers and sisters may find an alleviation of their woes. Be assured, also, that we deeply deplore any apparent complicity with the southern States in the clandestine equipment of war ships for their use in our waters, and that we fully appreciate the considerate feeling of the north, evinced by the shipment of gratuitous supplies for our distressed operatives. We are, with much respect, yours, &c., CHARLES H. JAMES, Chairman. Resolutions from Paisley, Scotland. To his excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States: Sir: At a public meeting of the inhabitants of Paisley, Scotland, upon the sixteenth day of February, eighteen hundred and sixty-three, in the United Presbyterian church, Abbey Close, David Campbell, esq., chief magistrate of the town, in the chair, the following resolutions were adopted: I. Moved by the Rev. Mr. Hutton, and seconded by William Colquhoun, esq.: “That the southern States having, by their revolt against the federal government, kindled the flames of civil war without any cause to justify revolution, and having organized themselves into a confederacy based on the denial of human rights to the colored race and the determination to perpetuate and extend the system of slavery, this meeting desires to express its abhorrence of a rebellion which thus violates the first principles of political justice and institutions framed in defiance of the moral sense of mankind and the clearest dictates of the Christian faith.” II. Moved by Mr. Robert Cochrane, and seconded by Bailie Gillespie: “That, deprecating the policy of compromise with slavery, and presuming to urge the duty of aiming at its complete eradication from the political system of the States, this meeting rejoices to recognize, in the election of President Lincoln and in the principal fruits of his administration, the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia; its prohibition in the Territories; the recognition of the republics of Hayti and Liberia; the concession of the right of search for the suppression of the slave trade; the scheme of compensated emancipation; the proclamation which inaugurated the new year; as well as the act for substituting free for slave labor, adopted in the State of Missouri; successive triumphs of anti-slavery sentiments in the United States, and the prospect of accelerated liberation to the enslaved; and its desire to express cordial approval of all wise measures tending to promote the final abolition of slavery, and the assurance of heartfelt sympathy with the government and people of the Union in their honorable struggle to prevent the establishment of, on their soil, that most portentous of despotisms—an irresponsible and retrograde slave power.” III. Moved by the Rev. William Park, and seconded by ex-Bailie Brown: “That this meeting warmly appreciates the generous feeling which has prompted American citizens to despatch supplies for the relief of the distress in Lancashire; and, in common, it believes, with the great mass of the British people, highly values the friendship of the American nation and the continuance of those amicable relations which, it confidently trusts, the license of an abusive press on either side of the Atlantic shall entirely fail to disturb. Further, requests the chairman to transmit a copy of the above resolutions to the American minister at London for transmission to his excellency the President of the United States.” DAVID CAMPBELL, Provost and Chief Magistrate of Paisley. Resolutions from Carlisle, England. To Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America: The following resolutions, adopted at a public meeting of the citizens of Carlisle, in the county of Cumberland, England, are respectfully addressed: 1. That this meeting, while approving of the principle of non-intervention adopted by her Majesty’s government, yet, believing that the present deplorable conflict in America is entirely owing to the attempts of the southern slaveholders to extend and perpetuate their system of human bondage, recognizes it as the duty of Englishmen to give a moral support to the President and government of the United States in their efforts to defeat the designs of the confederate slaveholders. 2. That, in the opinion of this meeting, the policy of emancipation which has been inaugurated by the government of President Lincoln is entitled to the hearty approval of the people of England and the “considerate judgment of mankind.” 3. That a copy of the foregoing resolutions be sent to the United States minister in London to be forwarded to the President of the United States. JAMES ROSS, Chairman. Resolutions from Rawtenstall, England. At a public meeting duly convened, of the inhabitants of Rawtenstall, in the county of Lancaster, on the American question, held in Holly Mount School, Peter Ormerod Whitehead, esq., in the chair, the following resolutions were moved, seconded, and adopted, viz: Resolved , First, that this meeting tenders its hearty thanks to the merchants of New York and other citizens of the United States of America for their generous and unsolicited contributions towards the alleviation of the unavoidable distress now so widely spread in the manufacturing districts of this country, and values the beneficent supplies sent by the George Griswold and other ships the more, as they evince, in unqualified contradiction to the unscrupulous and malignant slanders of the “London Times,” and other partisans of slavery, that the people of the United States are animated by the principles of Christian feeling and brotherly love for the fatherland. Second, that this meeting considers that the governor and people that can institute and carry out the following noble measures, viz: the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the prohibition of slavery in the Territories of the United States, the recognition of the republics of Hayti and Liberia, the concession of the right of search for the suppression of the slave trade, the scheme of compensated emancipation, and the proclamation of freedom which will make forever memorable the first of January, 1863, deserve the highest admiration and earnest support of every man professing to be a Briton, and proud of his boast that a slave cannot exist on British territory. Further, this meeting tenders its deep and fervent sympathy to the government and people of the loyal States in their arduous and noble struggle for the conservatism of the American Union, with freedom secured to every man of every color within its vast dominion; and prays that the friendly relation existing between America and England may long continue and grow stronger. Third, that a copy of the above resolutions, signed by the chairman, be forwarded to the honorable Charles Francis Adams, the American minister in London. PETER ORMEROD WHITEHEAD, Chairman.


---
## [d109] Mr. Adams to Mr. Seward .
[Extracts.]

No. 339.] Legation of the United States , London, March 5, 1863.

Sir: This morning I received despatches from the department, numbered from 473 to 482.

With respect to the instructions contained in Nos. 475 and 476, I shall, for the reasons already given in my former despatches, No. 327 and No. 334, delay acting upon them until the President shall have an opportunity to act on a full survey of all the addresses that are on their way. My own suggestion would rather be that I should have instructions to publish one brief and general reply, the form of which may be furnished to me at the same time. * * * *

I now transmit addresses or resolutions of the same tenor as those heretofore sent, from Newcastle-upon-Tyne on the 10th ultimo; from the Liverpool meeting on the 19th ultimo; from Huddersfield on the 24th ultimo; from Ashford, in Kent, and from Ashton-under-Lyne, on the 26th ultimo; from the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester on the 3d instant; from Massley, near Ashton-under-Lyne, on the 4th; and from Leeds on the 24th of February.

From these examples you will perceive that the current of sentiment continues to run strongly in the direction lately taken. * * * *

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.

Hon. William H. Seward , Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.] 1. Address from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, February 10, 1863. 2. Address from Liverpool, February 19, 1863. 3. Address from Huddersfield, February 24, 1863. 4. Address from Ashford, in Kent, February 26, 1863. 5. Address from Ashton-under-Lyne, February 26, 1863. 6. Address from Union and Emancipation Society, Manchester, March 3, 1863. 7. Address from Massley, March 4, 1863. 8. Address from Leeds, February 24, 1863. Resolutions from Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. First resolution. “That the revolt of the southern States of America against the federal government having avowedly originated in the determination not only to maintain but to extend slavery, and having been followed by the organization of a confederacy based upon the denial of human rights to the negro race, this meeting indignantly repels the assumption that the English people sympathize with a rebellion that thus violates every principle of political justice, or with institutions framed in defiance of the moral sense of civilized mankind, and which are an outrage upon the religion whose sanction has been claimed in their support.” Second resolution. “That in the election of President Lincoln, and in the principal acts of his administration—the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the prohibition of slavery in the Territories, the recognition of the republics of Hayti and Liberia, the concession of the right of search for the suppression of the slave trade, the scheme of compensated emancipation, and the proclamation which inaugurated the new year—this meeting recognizes successive triumphs of anti-slavery sentiment in the United States; rejoices in the prospect thus afforded of friendship between England and America, as well as of liberation to the enslaved; offers to the government and to the people of the loyal States the assurance of fraternal sympathy in their noble struggle; and requests that these resolutions be communicated to his excellency the American minister.” The above resolutions were unanimously passed at a large and enthusiastic meeting of the inhabitants of Newcastle-upon-Tyne , held February 10, 1863 . JOSEPH COWEN, Jr., Chairman. An addresss from inhabitants of Liverpool, England, in public meeting assembled, to the Hon. Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. Sir: Two hundred and forty years ago a Dutch man-of-war entered the James river, in Virginia, and landed twenty negro slaves, the first ever imported into the continent of the New World. In the year 1860, by continued importations and by natural increase, that number had advanced to four millions. These two facts describe an evil, which has been ever since pressing with accumulative weight upon the honor and prosperity of your country. It is with mingled pain and pleasure that we remember the existence of negro slavery in our own West India colonies—with pain, that England should ever have soiled her fame with that accursed institution; with pleasure, that her free spirit at length broke all the bonds of vested interest, and bade the oppressed go free. But our slavery was only colonial. It did not pollute the life-blood of the people at large by actual contact. At home it was regarded as much in the light of an error of our statute book as the crime of our nation. It occupied but a small portion of England’s vast possessions, and did not affect the organization of labor anywhere else. The interests of a class were identified with its maintenance, but not those of a whole mercantile community. Even thus limited, Englishmen still blush to think it was ever within the realm. But the slavery of the United States is and has been a far greater calamity, both at home and abroad. The area of its occupation is immeasurably wider, the number of its victims far greater, while it has become so thoroughly identified with national life in the south as to be always styled the domestic institution. And if, on these accounts, the difficulty of its abolition be greater, so also is the danger of its maintenance. The framers of a Constitution which was expressly designed “to secure the blessings of liberty” in an evil hour recognized, from motives of expediency, an institution which they too readily believed would speedily die out. Could they have foreseen the time when, so far from perishing, it would have been endued with more vigorous life, when their descendants would not only seek out new territory for its extension, but would even carry it back in ignominious triumph to lands whence, by a feebler government, but with more enlightened policy, it had been expelled, how would their noble hearts have been dismayed at such sad degeneracy! But so it has been. The peculiar adaptability of southern soil for the growth of cotton, combined with mechanical ingenuity in simplifying the process of its manufacture, has not only given a larger value to the labor of the negro, but has created an inter-State slave trade from which the fathers of the revolution would have turned away in disgust. The presidential chair and all the higher offices of state have, during a long succession of years, been occupied, with but few exceptions, by slave owners. The influence of the government has been given to the extension and protection of slavery. And though it is true that each State in the Union has been responsible for the maintenance of slavery within its own limits, the nation has identified itself with the institution by permitting it within the District of Columbia and the western territory, both alike common to all. Worse than all, several of the slave States have broken out into open rebellion for the avowed purpose of founding an empire, to be indefinitely extended, and based upon the perpetual organization of slavery as the natural condition of the negro race. To the national participation in the guilt of slavery one party in your country have always been opposed. With a holy and devoted enthusiasm they have tended the lamp of freedom, in full faith that sooner or later it would scare away the darkness. Every fresh exaction of the slave power has only served to deepen their earnestness, augment their numbers, and increase their influence. And the nation has at length awakened to a sense of its responsibilities. Your own election to the chief magistracy was an evidence of its determination that involuntary servitude should, at all events, never exceed the limits it had then attained. And here we call to mind your own words: “I have always hated slavery.” “I believe the government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free.” No longer harassed by those sectional proclivities in the cabinet which formerly prevailed, and pursuing a strictly constitutional line, Congress has abolished slavery in the District of Columbia and throughout the Territories of the United States; it has recognized as sovereign states the republics of Hayti and Liberia; and it has conceded to England the long-withheld right of search, thus rendering a treaty for the suppression of the slave trade something better than an empty form. Constitutionally armed with powers derived from Congress, you, sir, as President of the United States and commander-in-chief of the national forces, have forbidden the return of fugitive slaves seeking refuge within the lines of the federal army. In September last you issued a proclamation declaring that you would consecrate the new year to liberty by decreeing freedom to every slave within the limits of the rebellion; but at the same time tendering pecuniary aid for the immediate or gradual emancipation of the slaves of loyal States. Both these promises you have faithfully kept, and two slave States have since accepted your proposal. That the edict of freedom has not been universal in its operation is owing, we know, to the limit placed upon your power by that Constitution which you have sworn “faithfully to preserve, protect, and defend,” and under which treason alone can justify you in compulsory emancipation. But we feel assured that by the inexorable logic of events the abolition of slavery will speedily take place in every one of the excepted districts. We offer no opinion on the policy of the civil war now raging in your country; but for the measures we have thus briefly sketched, which have denationalized slavery, and which are intended to destroy it, as the avowed cause of the war itself, we now tender to you and your cabinet our respectful sympathy. For those acts of humanity and justice we trust you will realize your own reverential desire and receive “the considerate judgment of mankind and the gracious favor of Almighty God.” Signed in behalf of the meeting. JOHN CROPPER, Chairman. Liverpool , February 19, 1863 . [Untitled] At a public meeting of the inhabitants of Huddersfield, held in the Philosophical Hall on the 24th day of February, 1863, Isaac Robson in the chair, it was— Moved by the Rev. Robert Bruce, and seconded by John Priestley, “ That this meeting desires to express its utter abhorrence of slavery wherever existing, and its emphatic condemnation of all attempts to extend or perpetuate so great a crime against humanity.” Carried unanimously. It was also moved by Joseph Bothroyd, seconded by the Rev. Thomas Stephenson, and supported by George Thompson, “That while this meeting deeply deplores the present unhappy conflict in America, the cause of so much misery both there and elsewhere, it nevertheless observes with satisfaction the growth of anti-slavery sentiments in the United States, and declares its approval of the recent acts of the federal government so far as they have tended to confer the boon of liberty on more than three millions of our fellow-men who have been so long unjustly held in bondage. “And, further, that this meeting earnestly desires that the means proposed to the States remaining in the Union for compensatory abolition of slavery may be speedily adopted, and thus that the stain may be completely and forever removed which has so long disgraced a great and enlightened republic.” Carried with five dissentients. It was also moved by the Rev. R. Stainton, seconded by Thomas Denham, “That E. A. Seatham, esq., M. P., be requested to present a copy of the previous resolutions to the American minister in London, with a request to forward the same to President Lincoln.” Carried unanimously. ISAAC ROBSON, Chairman. February 25, 1863 . JOSH. A. DEAR, Secretary to the Meeting. February 25, 1863 . Copy of resolution of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester. Office 51 Piccadilly , Manchester , March 3, 1863. That the executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester has heard with feelings of humiliation that certain Englishmen, including some members of the British House of Commons, are concerned in the illegal enterprise of building and fitting out piratical ships in aid of the American slaveholders’ confederacy, contrary to public policy, national honor, and the Queen’s proclamation of neutrality. The executive hereby records its protest against all such disreputable practices, and calls upon Parliament and her Majesty’s government to institute the needful steps forthwith to bring these delinquents before a tribunal of public justice, and to put an effectual stop to all such proceedings. Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester. (In co-operation with the London Emancipation Society.) ADDRESS. The Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester has been formed (in cooperation with the London Emancipation Society) to give expression, on behalf of the population of this district, to their earnest sympathy with the cause of freedom and fraternal regard towards their kinsmen of the United States, and to resist all recognition of the slaveholders’ confederacy. We emphatically repudiate those unworthy expressions of satisfaction at the contemplated disruption of the American Union which have disgraced the columns of some of our journals, and the utterances of too many of our public men and members of Parliament. We deplore the systematic perversion of facts in regard to the vital questions involved in the American struggle and the habitual suppression, by leading organs of the press, of reports of meetings at which views hostile to the slave power have been expressed. We feel that the credit of English journalism and the honor of our country are compromised by these unworthy attempts to foster jealousy of a growing kindred power, to create a desire to see that power humbled, and the progress of popular government thereby impeded. These perversions, suppressions, and misrepresentations have unfortunately created in the minds of the American people, north and south, an impression that the English nation is hostile to the federal cause, and would be exultant at the downfall of the great republic. The breaking up of the American Union into two or more separate governments would be a world-wide disaster, and entail many grievous calamities. Such a disruption would substitute for a single and cheap government two or more of a very expensive character; would impose upon each the necessity of keeping up large standing armies, which would absorb, as in Europe, a third of the resources of the state, imposing heavy taxes on the people; would provoke, sooner or later, other wars as disastrous as the present; would encourage the secession of other States, and thus paralyze that magnificent development of human activity and constitutional liberty which has been the admiration of the civilized world, and would reopen the African slave trade with all its horrors and barbarities. We are, therefore, deeply convinced that the maintenance of the federal Union of America is an object of unspeakable importance to the whole human family, and that its disruption would prove a calamity to the cause of freedom and to the interests of civilization. We know that the sentiments of the great bulk of the people of this district, and we believe of the country generally, are decidedly in favor of the federal government and of those principles of freedom and equality in defence of which it is making such noble and patriotic sacrifices. With every wish to uphold the principles of non-intervention and strict governmental neutrality, we are impelled to declare that this nation is, by its feelings, inclined, as by its antecedents bound, to give its whole moral support to the cause of order, of civil freedom, of constitutional government, and of emancipation—all of which are represented by the north in its struggle to maintain the Union. The so-called “southern chivalry” is waging war against a free, popular government, with the intention, unblushingly proclaimed, of forming a new confederation, whose chief corner-stone shall be the execrable system of human bondage. The men who initiated this wicked rebellion did so by perjury, robbery, and fraud committed against the community by whom they were paid, and whose Constitution they had sworn to defend. The slaveholders, who are the mainspring of the conspiracy, form but a small section of the people over whom they exercise an absolute domination. By a recent act the conscription in the south includes all men between 16 and 60 years of age; exemption being granted to the owner of six slaves, and so in proportion for every six slaves a male relation or friend is exempted. General Neal Dow says the people in the south avow that “this is a rich man’s war but a poor man’s fight.” The success of the rebellion would, therefore, promote only the sordid interests of a few, whilst it would, in all probability, indefinitely prolong the bondage of the negroes and the degradation of the poor whites of the south. The federal government, on the other hand, was elected on the policy of restricting slavery within existing State limits, and on the principle that the normal condition of all the territory of the United States is that of freedom. It was against this that the slaveholders rebelled. Since the commencement of hostilities, President Lincoln has made many practical advances towards a complete recognition of the declaration of independence that all men are created equal! He has procured the liberation of the slaves in the District of Columbia and the interdiction of slaves in the Territories; he has enforced the laws against the African slave trade, and for its more effectual suppression has concluded a treaty with England granting the right of search; he has decided to receive ambassadors from the negro republics of Hayti and Liberia, and followed the good example of Great Britain; he has proposed to purchase the liberty of all slaves in the loyal States, and his Attorney General has pronounced free negroes to be citizens of the Union, which previous governments had denied. To crown this series of just and humane efforts for freedom, President Lincoln, as commander-in-chief of the forces, has proclaimed unconditional freedom to all bondsmen of the United States. The conduct of those public men amongst us whose policy has been to retard the progress of liberty at home (pretending to ignore the distinction between the aims of the constitutional government at Washington and the slaveocracy headed by Jefferson Davis) may be understood; but for liberal-minded men to countenance these rebels and enemies of mankind in their nefarious designs against public order, moral law, and social progress, is as opposed to the teachings of Wilberforce, Clarkson, Granville Sharp, and Henry Brougham, as slavery itself is to the genius of the Christian religion. Apart, however, from the higher considerations upon which the actions of public men and the policy of nations should be based, we know that the workingmen of this district regard with astonishment a civilization which can look complacently upon 4,000,000 of human beings in a state of the most abject bondage. The operative classes are convinced that the labor markets of Europe are injuriously affected by the system of slavery; that the value of our commercial relations with four millions of people, enjoying the fruits of their own labor, will be vastly enhanced, whilst by the success of the federal cause that odious system of slave-breeding for the auction pens of Richmond, which calls for the indignant reprobation of mankind, will receive its death blow. Deprecating war, and deploring its ruinous consequences, we most cordially and earnestly desire the speedy establishment of a safe and enduring peace on the basis of the complete emancipation of every chattel-slave in the American States, believing that nothing less will justify the policy of the north, or recall to reason the slaveholding oligarchy of the south. We commend to the thoughtful consideration of our countrymen the momentous question involved in the great conflict now desolating the American continent. This is no matter of doubtful import or party issue. The lines are clearly drawn, and. every one must soon take his stand either with the enemies of mankind, the slaveocracy at Richmond, or with the friends of freedom, as represented by the federal government at Washington. Signed on behalf of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester. THOMAS BAILEY POTTER, President. SAMUEL WATTS, Jr. , Treasurer. JOHN C. EDWARDS, EDWARD OWEN GREENING, Honorary Secretaries. Office 51 Piccadilly , Manchester , January, 1863 . [Untitled] To his excellency the honorable Charles Francis Adams, the United States minister in London: Honored Sir : At a public meeting of the inhabitants of Mossley called to consider the best means of abolishing slavery and maintaining the American Union, held in the lecture hall of the Mechanics’ Institute, one of the largest rooms in the town, on the 26th ultimo—the hall being densely filled in every part, and large numbers being unable to gain admission, and the proceedings being of the most enthusiastic character—the following resolutions were unanimously adopted: 1. Moved by the Rev. E. Minton, seconded by Mr. N. Radcliffe, senior, and supported by Mr. J. A. Jackson : “That the revolt of the southern States against the federal government having avowedly originated not only to maintain but to extend slavery; having been followed by the organization of a confederacy based on the denial of human rights to the negro race, this meeting indignantly repels the assumption that the English people sympathizes with a rebellion that thus violates every principle of political justice, or with institutions framed in defiance of the moral sense of civilized mankind, and which are an outrage upon the religion whose sanction has been claimed in their support.” 2. Moved by the Rev. N. Cocker, seconded by Mr. Heys, and supported by Mr. E. O. Greening”: “That in the election of President Lincoln and in the principal acts of his administration—the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the prohibition of slavery in the Territories, the recognition of the republics of Hayti and Liberia, the concession of the right of search for the suppression of the slave trade, the scheme of compensated emancipation, and the proclamation which inaugurated the new year—this meeting recognizes the successive triumphs of anti-slavery principles in the United States, and rejoices in the prospect of a better feeling between England and America as well as liberation to the enslaved, and offers to the government and the people of the loyal States the assurance of fraternal sympathy in their noble struggle.” 3. Moved by Mr. J. Robinson, seconded by Mr. J. Rhodes, and supported by Mr. J. C. Edwards : “That this meeting desires to express its grateful appreciation of the noble conduct of the people of the United States, who, whilst they themselves are suffering the evils resulting from the terrible ordeal through which their country is passing, have generously manifested their sympathy with our distress by sending the noble ships, the George Griswold and the Achilles, freighted with full cargoes of food for free distribution amongst our suffering population, for which this meeting begs to express its most heartfelt thanks, and it desires that copies of the resolutions passed at this meeting be sent to his excellency the American minister in London.” ROBERT HYDE BUCKLEY, Chairman. Memorial of the Leeds Workingmen’s Institute to the people of America. Leeds , February 12, 1863. The members of the Leeds Workingmen’s Institute have heard with a pleasure which they cannot readily describe of the contribution lately made by the people of America towards the relief of their distressed fellow-laborers in Lancashire. This act of sympathy, so spontaneous and so generous, has excited throughout the country the warmest feelings of gratitude. The thanks of the nation at large will be conveyed to the people of America through other and more appropriate channels; but the workingmen of Leeds can at least bear witness to the feeling which has been aroused. in a large section of their countrymen by this instance of good will on the part of the American people. In justice, no less to their order than to themselves, they venture to give expressions to that feeling in the present address. And, in the first place, they beg to offer their most hearty thanks to those who have so gracefully ministered to the wants of a nation connected, indeed, with themselves by blood, by language, and by laws, but of late too much estranged from them by political differences. They cannot but remember that this assistance is rendered at a time which makes it particularly valuable as a token of sympathy, when other claims, which might well have been considered paramount, are pressing upon the American people. They would gladly see in this mark of kindness an assurance that, however the governments of the two countries have differed, and may still differ, on questions of international or domestic policy, the hearts of their inhabitants are not yet severed; that the people of America and the people of England feel themselves bound together by stronger ties than political alliances can furnish, or than political differences can break. They earnestly hope that such distress as has been lately felt by the working people of Lancashire may never be experienced by any of those whom they address; but should the time ever unhappily arrive in which such help as has now been afforded might be acceptably returned, by none would such assistance be more eagerly offered than by the workingmen of England. On behalf of the Leeds Workingmen’s Institute. DARNTON LUPTON, President. Ashton resolutions. Mr. William Kellsal moved the first resolution, which reads thus: That this meeting denounces and abhors the attempt now made by the slaveholders of the southern States of America to establish a constitution the chief corner-stone of which is professedly based on slavery. Mr. James Broadbent moved the second resolution, which was as follows : That this meeting admires and approves of the emancipation policy which President Lincoln and his colleagues have adopted as the best means of destroying slavery, and delivering their country from the contempt and reproach of the world; and such policy is entitled to our warmest sympathy and support. Mr. William Stephenson proposed the third resolution: That our hearty thanks be given to the people of the free States of North America who have so generously assisted the operatives of Lancashire in their distress; and we hail with pleasure the arrival of the George Griswold and other ships as a tangible expression of good feeling, and the strongest refutation of the common charges of hatred and malice attributed to the Americans towards this country.


---
## [d452] Lord Lyons to Mr. Seward .
Washington , April 8, 1863.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your notes of the 3d and 4th instant, and of your two notes of the 6th instant, all relating to the case of the British steamer Peterhoff, captured off the island of St. Thomas.

In order to complete the information which I have felt it my duty to communicate to you respecting this capture, I do myself the honor to lay before you an authenticated copy of a protest, made by the master, mate, and steward of the Peterhoff, before the British vice-consul at Key West, and also an authenticated extract from the official log of the ship. I beg you to be so good as to return these documents to me.

You will observe that a request made by the master, that the British mail which was on board might be delivered to her Majesty’s consul, to be forwarded to its destination, was refused by the commander of the capturing ship. This refusal appears to be inconsistent with the instructions prescribed by your letter to the Secretary of the Navy of the 31st October, 1862.

I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

LYONS.

Hon. William H. Seward , Secretary of State.

[Untitled] Her Britannic Majesty’s Vice-Consulate for the State of Florida , Port of Key West. By this public instrument of protest and declaration be it known, and made manifest unto all persons whom it doth, shall, or may concern, that on this fourteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord 1863, before me, Aubrey George Butterfield, her Britannic Majesty’s vice-consul in and for the State of Florida, at the British vice-consulate office, at Key West, personally came and appeared Stephen Jarman, master of the British steamer Peterhoff, of the burden of 269 tons, or thereabouts, belonging to the port of London, England, who having duly noted a protest before me, the said vice-consul, now wished to extend the same, and for that purpose, he, the said master, has brought with him H. Bound, mate, and T. Webber, steward of and belonging to the said steamer; and the said appearers being by me, the said consul, duly sworn upon the holy evangelists of Almighty God, did severally declare and depose as follows: That on Thursday, at 7 a.m., January 8, A. D. 1863, they, the said appearers, set sail in and with the said steamer for the port of London, England, laden with general merchandise, and bound to Matamoras, in the republic of Mexico, under charge of the pilot, who proceeded with the vessel until she was safely anchored at Plymouth harbor, where she arrived at 11.15 p.m. on the 9th of January, and remained until the 18th of the same month, being detained at the same port by a continuation of boisterous weather or other causes. That at 2 p.m. on the same day the pilot left the ship, when the said appearers made all possible sail, and prosecuted their voyage until the same night, when the wind became strong, increasing to a gale, from the westward, and a very high sea rising, the said appearers then bore up to the port of Falmouth, where they arrived on the following morning, at 8 a.m. the 19th, where, from the continuance of bad weather, the said appearers were obliged to remain until Tuesday, the 27th instant, when they again made all possible sail, until the night of the 28th, when strong gales commenced from the west, southwest, and continued until the night of the 30th, a very high sea running all the time, and the ship laboring heavily. Nothing further occurring until Friday, February 20, (when at 8. a.m. in latitude 18° 18’ north, and longitude 64° 50’ west; Buck island bearing west half north; Hunder island northwest, two miles; French cap southwest by west half west,) when the said steamer was stopped on her course toward St. Thomas (to which port she was calling for coal) by two shots being fired across the bows from the United States steamship Alabama. She was then boarded by an officer from the Alabama, who demanded the sight of her papers, which, on being examined, the said officer (although he declined to indorse them) passed them as correct, and allowed the steamer to proceed on her course at 8.30 a.m., which she did, and arrived at St. Thomas at 9.30 the same morning. On the morning of the 25th, Wednesday, having finished coaling, the said appearers, with the said steamer, left the port of St. Thomas at 1 p.m. to proceed on their voyage to Matamoras, which they did until 2.20 p.m., when they were stopped by the United States steamship Vanderbilt, (where Buck island bore east, by north-half north, light-house northeast about four miles, Sail rock west by north, one-quarter north.) An officer then came on board and requested to see the ship’s papers; they were shown to him, when he examined them, and made a note that the ship had her Britannic Majesty’s mails on board; he then left the ship, saying that the steamer’s papers were not correct, as they had not been indorsed by the British consul at St. Thomas, to which remark the captain of the said steamer replied that he must have overlooked it, and that if he would wait he would point out to him the indorsement made on his papers by the British consul at St. Thomas; this the officer declined to do, and immediately left for the Vanderbilt. At 3.30 the same officer (Mr. Keyser) returned to the ship and ordered the said captain of the Peterhoff on board the Vanderbilt, with all the papers and documents of the ship, stating at the same time, in the event of his refusal, an armed crew would be sent on board to take charge of the ship; to this the captain refused, the passengers also objecting to his leaving the ship after such a threat being held out. And the said appeared do further declare that at 4 p.m. the same day the said steamer was again boarded by two boat’s crews fully armed, having on board three officers and twenty-one men, who forcibly took charge of the said steamer; the Vanderbilt then left for St Thomas, when the said captain of the Peterhoff requested them, through the officer in charge of the boat, to call on the British consul at that place. And the said appearers do further declare that at 7 p.m. the captain, officers, crew, and passengers, were all confined below, and armed sentries stationed at the hatchways and cabin door, and that at 9 p.m., when the Vanderbilt returned, they were again boarded by an officer, (Mr. E. Lewis, acting master,) who also demanded the ship’s papers to be delivered up to him, to be sent to the captain of the Vanderbit, to which demand the said captain of the Peterhoff refused, saying that he would not deliver them up except to a British consul, or other British officer in authority. At the same time he wished him to understand that any number of officers were perfectly welcome to examine the papers on board the ship; to which the said officer of the United States replied, “Then, sir, consider yourself as no longer in command of this ship. I take charge of her in the name of the United States of America.” Whereupon be demanded all arms and ammunition to be delivered up, and they were sent on board the Vanderbilt, together with all the crew, except the master, mate, second engineer, steward, cook, one boy and the passengers, who continued to be kept as close prisoners. The said captain then wrote to the commander of the Vanderbilt, protesting against the capture of the vessel, being an act most illegal, also explaining that she had her Britannic Majesty’s mails on board, which he requested they would deliver to the British consul at St. Thomas, to be disposed of by him; to this request the commander of the Vanderbilt made a verbal reply, that he declined interfering with the freight. And the said appearers do further declare that at 7 a.m. on the following day, the 26th, the ship bore away to Key West, (as reported,) and the Vanderbilt returned to St. Thomas. And the said appearers do further declare that the said Stephen Jarman, captain of the said steamer Peterhoff, did, at the time of the said capture aforesaid, strongly protest against the said capture, protesting that the said capture was a most illegal act, he being with the said steamer Peterhoff on a legal voyage from St. Thomas to Matamoras, in the republic of Mexico. And the said appearers do further declare, that the said steamer Peterhoff, under charge of the prize master as aforesaid, arrived at this port of Key West on Saturday, March 7, A. D. 1863. And the said appearers do also further declare that the said steamer, at the time of her departure from London, as well as at the time of her capture as aforesaid, was tight, staunch, and strong, and that her hatches were well and sufficiently calked and covered, and was well and sufficiently manned, provided and furnished with all things needful and necessary for the said voyage, and that during the said voyage they, the said appearers and ship’s company, used their utmost endeavors to preserve the said steamer, and the goods of her loading from damage and loss. And, therefore, the said Stephen Jarman, master as aforesaid, did declare to protest—as by these presents he doth solemnly protest—and I, the said consul, do also protest against all and every person or persons whomsoever whom it doth, shall, or may concern, and do declare that all and all manner of damages, losses and detriments whatsoever that have happened to the said steamer and the goods of her loading, or to either of them, or to any part thereof, are and ought to be borne by the merchants and freighters, or underwriters interested, or by whomsoever else it shall or may concern, (by way of average, or otherwise,) the same having occurred as before mentioned, and not by or through the insufficiency of the said steamer, or the neglect of him, the said master, and firstnamed appearer, his officers or any of his mariners. In witness whereof, the said appearers have hereunto subscribed their names. STEPHEN JARMAN, Master R. N. R . H. BOUND, Mate . THOS. WEBBER, Steward.

[Untitled] All which matters and things were by the said appearers severally declared, affirmed, subscribed and sworn to, as before is set forth, in the presence of me, the said vice-consul; and therefore I have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed the seal of this office, being requested to testify and certify the premises. This done and protested at Key West, aforesaid, the day and year herein first mentioned. AUBREY G. BUTTERFIELD, H. B. M. Vice-Consul.

[Untitled] Her Britannic Majesty’s Vice-Consulate , Key West , March 11, 1863. I, Aubrey George Butterfield, do hereby certify the foregoing to be a true and correct copy of the original protest recorded in this office. In testimony whereof, I do hereunto set my hand and seal of office, at the port of Key West, this sixteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three. [l. s.] AUBREY G. BUTTERFIELD, H. B. M. Vice-Consul.

[Untitled] Her Britannic Majesty’s Consulate, Key West. [L. S.] I, Aubrey G. Butterfield, esq., her Majesty’s vice-consul, do hereby certify that the annexed paper is a true and correct copy of such portions of the official log-book of the British steamer Peterhoff as relates to the capture of the said vessel by the United States war ship Vanderbilt, when on a voyage from St. Thomas to Matamoras. In testimony whereof, I do hereunto set my hand and seal of office, at Key West , this twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three . AUBREY G. BUTTERFIELD, H. B. M. Vice-Consul.

Copy of the official log of the British steamer Peterhoff, as kept by the captain when on her voyage from London to Matamoras, and attested by the mate and passengers on board. On Friday, February 20, A. D. 1863, at 8 a.m., when proceeding on our course towards St. Thomas, when in latitude 18° 18’ north and longitude 64° 50’, Buck island being west ½ north, Hunder island northwest 2 miles, French cap southwest by west ½ west, were stopped by two shots being fired across our bows from the United States steamship Alabama, and then boarded by an officer from said ship, who demanded a sight of the ship’s papers; they were shown to him, and after very carefully examining the same, he passed them as satisfactory and correct; not having power to indorse the same, he left the ship, and we proceeded on at 8.30 a.m. At 9.30 we anchored in the harbor of St. Thomas, after steaming on slowly, with jack flying for a pilot. On arrival I reported to the harbor master and British consul what the Alabama had done in Danish waters; then entered my ship at the custom-house, and arranged for coaling. February 24.—This day the United States steamer Wachusett arrived, with Admiral Wilkes on board, also the Oneida as tender. In the evening, it being currently reported on shore that Admiral Wilkes had said the Alabama ought to have captured the Peterhoff, I advised with some of my passengers, and concluded to ask the advice of the British consul, in the morning, as to whether I had not better call on Admiral Wilkes with my papers, to get them indorsed by him, to prevent further molestation from United States ships-of-war. February 25.—At 8 a.m. I called on the British consul, and consulted with him on the above-mentioned subject. He said that Admiral Wilkes’s pass would be of no avail, and he did not consider it at all requisite, as our papers were perfectly legal; and having her Majesty’s mails on board for Matamoras, he did not think they would dare stop the ship, being free and going to a neutral port. On this advice I acted, and proceeded to sea. At 0.45 p.m. we cast off the buoy, and steamed slowly out of the harbor. At 1 p.m. one of the air-pumps became disabled, so that no vacuum could be obtained; stopped the engines, and made all sail; passed the United States steamer Vanderbilt going in, and when she arrived off the harbor mouth we observed her exchanging signals with the admiral’s ship. At 2 p.m. the said steamer folio wed us, and at 2.20 p.m. ordered us to heave to, which we did, (Buck island being east by north ½ north, lighthouse northeast, from St. Thomas north-northeast, Sail rock west by north ¼ north.) An officer, Mr. Keyser, (acting ensign,) then came on board and requested to see the ship’s papers; they were shown to him, and he examined them, and also made a note of the ship’s having a mail on board; and when about to leave the ship, at 2.55 p.m., and in his boat, he ordered me to remain hove to with the ship, and said the papers were not in due form, as they were not indorsed by the consul at St. Thomas. I replied, “You must have overlooked it, sir; but if you will kindly step up again I will point it out to you.” This he declined, and left for the Vanderbilt. At 3.30 p.m. Mr. Keyser returned, and ordered me on board the said ship, with the papers and documents connected with the Peterhoff, stating, at same time, in the event of my refusal, an armed crew would be sent on board to take charge. I told him that his commander was at liberty to send as many officers as he thought proper to examine the papers here on board, and also to search the ship if he wished; but that as I held a commission in the naval reserve, (which in itself should be a guarantee,) and having her Majesty’s mails on board for Matamoras, as master of the ship and mail agent, I objected to leave her at sea, and particularly after such a threat as held out. I said, “The papers have already been overhauled and passed (as you are aware) by the United States steamship Alabama, and you are all perfectly welcome to see them again.” He replied, “I will return and report;” and during the whole of the above conversation, I particularly called the attention of my officers and passengers to witness the same, and one and all strongly protested against my leaving the ship, except by force of arms. At 4 p.m. we were boarded by two boats’ crews fully armed, consisting of three officers and twenty-one men, who forcibly took charge of our ship, and prevented my chief officer from touching the English ensign, which was flying the whole time. One of the crew took charge of the wheel, and their engineer officer of the engine-room. The Vanderbilt then steered for St. Thomas, for further instructions, and I requested them to call on the British consul. Our ship remained hove to under the entire charge of Mr. A. C. Alexander and his crew. The weather looking squally, I called the officer’s attention to the same, and told him I held him responsible if anything was injured or carried away. He replied, “All right, sir.” At 7 p.m. myself and officers and passengers were all ordered below, crew likewise, and two armed sentries were stationed at the cabin-door, others on the bridge and forecastle. I then asked permission to see the officer in charge, and protested strongly against such an act of gross tyranny, depriving us of liberty and fresh air; at the same time I requested him to stand toward St. Thomas, as I wished to return to that port. He replied, “My orders are to remain where I am; and I must be very careful and cautious, for one of my men has just reported to me that the captain was seen loading his revolver.” Now, seeing that Mr. Alexander was in a great state of agitation and fear, I begged of him to dispose of and banish from his mind all ideas respecting our wishing to retake the ship, for, in the first place, being disabled in our machinery, we could not make our escape; secondly, it would be the last of our thoughts, under existing circumstances; for although it would be an easy matter to do, I trusted we had too much good sense to attempt it. At 7 p.m. the Vanderbilt again returned, and we were boarded by an officer, Mr. E. Lewis, who, in a most authoritative tone, in the cabin where we were all detained as prisoners, demanded the ship’s papers to be delivered up to him to be sent to Captain Baldwin, of the Vanderbilt. I told him I could not let them go out of my possession, nor over the ship’s side, and did not feel myself justified in delivering them up to any one but a British consul, or some other British officer in authority, and not even then without a proper receipt—more particularly, after Admiral Wilkes’s remarks as currently reported at St. Thomas, for I could not tell what use they might wish to make of them; but at the same time again wished him to understand that himself or any number of officers were perfectly welcome to examine them on board the ship. He replied,” Then, sir, consider yourself as no longer in command of this ship. I take charge and command of her in the name of the United States, and as long as you treat me as a gentleman I will treat you the same.” At 9.50 an officer came down and demanded all the small arms belonging to self, officers and passengers; they were given up to him, (for which he refused to give a receipt,) and they were gent on board the Vanderbilt. At about the same time the whole of our crew were taken on board ship, excepting self, first officer, second engineer, steward, cook and boy, and the passengers. Myself and mate kept close prisoners in the cabin, with two armed sentries at the door. Now the Vanderbilt having been to St. Thomas, I asked them if they had not called on the British consul as I requested. They replied, they had not done so; they had only communicated with Admiral Wilke’s. I said, “If you had brought me a note from my consul, I would have been guided by his advice.” I then wrote a note to Commander Baldwin, (copy see margin,) and about 11.45 p.m. received a verbal reply stating that he declined interfering with the freight. Our ship remained hove to during the night, exchanging officers, crew, and also provisions. At 7 a.m. the next day, the 26th, we bore away for Key West, (as reported,) and the Vanderbilt steamed towards St. Thomas.

Letter from Capt. Jarman to Commander Baldwin, before referred to . Steamship Peterhoff , February 27, 1863. Sir: My ship having been forcibly taken possession of by an armed crew from your vessel, I hereby strongly protest against your proceedings as an act most illegal. My ship’s papers were examined on the 20th, and passed by the United States steamship Alabama, as you are aware, and now but partially examined by your own officers. I beg leave to inform you that we have her Britannic Majesty’s mails on board for Matamoras; and as I am desirous of having them forwarded to their destination as quickly as possible, may I request you to cause them to be delivered to the British consul at St. Thomas, to be disposed of by him ? I am, sir, your obedient servant, S. JARMAN, Lieutenant R. N. R., Commanding Steamship Peterhoff .

[Untitled] March 7,1863.—At 1.30 p.m. we were boarded by a government pilot, who took charge, and at 1.45 p.m. they brought the ship into the harbor of Key West—myself and passengers detained on board. Captain Lewis and pilot left the ship. I then sent a note to her Britannic Majesty’s consul. STEPHEN JARMAN, Master. H. BOND, Mate. Witnesses: Samuel J. Redgate, Lloyd’s agent, Matamoras, G. W. Almond, Robert Bowdon, F. Mohl, P. J. Edwards, John H. Ellsworth, Theod. Heych.

Additional extracts, as copied from the official log-book of the steamer Peterhoff attested by the captain and mate. Thursday, February 26, 1863.—At 10 a.m. the cook came aft and reported that the forecastle room had been broken open by the prize crew during the night, and that the whole of the hams, bacon, and cheese, also some tea and sugar, had been stolen therefrom. I ordered him to nail the door up, and to let me know if he saw anything going wrong. I then reported to Mr. E. Lewis, officer in charge. He said he would inquire into it. In overhauling the machinery, the engineer in charge found a small chip of wood in one of the air pumps. It is now all right, and she is working as before. All plain sails set; no stud sails. One-half the passengers and self allowed on deck at same time; the other half confined to the cabin, an armed sentry stationed at the door, and a corporal close by. Friday, 27th. —At 8 a.m., steering to go through the Mona passage. We sighted a steamer. At 11.15 we shortened sail, and they hoisted our ensign, when the steamer Alabama spoke us; asked what ship, and if we were a prize. Mr. Lewis replied yes, and bound for Key West, and also told them that the Vanderbilt was at St. Thomas. She then bore away, and we made all steam and sail. It was now blowing fresh from the northeast, with a high beam sea running, and having some coals on deck, caused our ship to roll heavily. I protested against going out by that passage, and explained the advantage of going to leeward. Mr. Lewis immediately bore up for the south side of St. Domingo. I omitted to mention, yesterday, my charts were called for as soon as we started, and three or four taken to navigate the ship. The cook again reported the storeroom broken open, and log-line and canvas missing. I requested Mr. Lewis to have the after hatch taken off for benefit of cargo. It was done accordingly. Passengers still under same restrictions; an armed sentry still kept at cabin door. Saturday, 28th. —Steering to westward, along south side of St. Domingo. Nothing particular occurred this day, excepting storeroom again broken open; called Mr. Lewis’s attention to the hams and bacon brought to the galley to cook; canvas and small line missing; not being allowed to go forward, cannot tell exactly what is going on. All the passengers allowed to go on deck; armed sentry still stationed at the door day and night; after hatch off during the day. March 1.—Fine weather throughout. At 10.30 performed divine service in the cabin; passengers all in attendance. Our stores still being used by the men forward. Ship making slow progress through not keeping steam up. March 2.—At noon, off Falmouth, (10 miles,) Jamaica. Hatches off during the day. Observed very few hands at work, and they seem to be shut in the engine-room. March 5.—At 2 p.m. made the light-house on Cape St. Antonio. At noon, fresh northeast winds, and fine. Ship steering towards Key West, going very slowly; little steam. March 3.—The cook reported the new canvas and houseline being used by the prize crew. Heading to the northeast, this day we arrived. Sentry at the saloon door. S. JARMAN, Captain . H. BOND, Mate.


---
## [d629] Mr. Seward to Mr. Stuart .
Department of State, Washington, October 9, 1863.

Sir: Recurring to Lord Lyons’s communication of the 17th of July last, so far as it relates to the charge of harsh treatment of the officers of the British steamer Victor by those of the United States cruiser Juniata, I now have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter of the 7th instant, from the Secretary of the Navy, and of the reports to which it refers, repelling the accusations brought against the officers of the Juniata.

I seize this occasion to offer to you, sir, a renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

Hon. William Stuart, &c., &c., &c.

Mr. Welles to Mr. Seward . Navy Department, October 7, 1863. Sir: Referring to my letter of the 31st of July last, addressed to you in answer to a note from Lord Lyons, relative to the seizure of the English steamer Victor, I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of a report from Commander J. M. B. Clitz, commanding the United States steamer Juniata, dated the 22d ultimo, and copies of reports from other officers of that vessel, repelling the charges made against them, of having ill treated the officers and crew of the Victor. Very respectfully, GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy. Hon. William H. Seward , Secretary of State, &c. Commander Clitz to Admiral Lardner . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 22, 1863. Sir: In compliance with your order of September 21, I respectfully submit the reports of the various officers of this vessel in reference to the seizure of the English steamer Victor and the alleged ill treatment of her officers and crew. The Victor was taken on the evening of May 28. I assumed command of the Juniata on the 30th, and found the officers and crew on board at that time. On the 9th of June, by order of Acting Rear-Admiral J. Bailey, the master’s mate and senior engineer were sent to Fort Taylor, at Key West, the remainder of the crew were allowed to go at large, and were landed at the city of Key West. In regard to the ill treatment of which they (officers and crew) complain, I would state that they were not confined as prisoners, but were generally unrestricted in their movements about the ship, and that if they had causes for complaint, they were never made known to me as the commanding officer About their treatment while at Fort Taylor I know nothing. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. M. B. CLITZ, Commander, United States Navy. Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. Lardner, Commanding West India Squadron. Lieutenant Maxwell to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, Hayti, September 21, 1863. Sir: In obedience to your order of this date I make the following report: On the evening of the 28th of May we left Havana, followed by a small steamer showing English colors, and when at least five miles from the coast of Cuba boarded and took possession of her. She proved to be the steamer Victor. Received on board the officers and crew, with the exception of the second engineer and one fireman, who afterwards came on board at Key West. The master, first and second engineers, were quartered with the steerage officers, were furnished with beds to sleep on, and, in fact, well cared for. The crew were quartered with our own men. While at Key West, on account of their ragged appearance, I gave orders that the Victor’s crew should not be allowed the use of the topgallant forecastle; but in every other respect they had the freedom of the ship. The master and first engineer complained of their want of clothing, which had been left on board the Victor. An officer was sent to the prize commissioner who had charge of the vessel with the complaint, and the answer returned was, that it would be attended to. On the 9th of June I was directed by Commander Clitz to send the master’s mate and first engineer to Fort Taylor, in charge of Acting Ensign Winslow, who was directed to deliver them to the commanding officer, and was to say to him that if orders had not yet been received, that Admiral Bailey had made all arrangements with the general commanding for their reception at the fort. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. G. MAXWELL, Lieutenant Commander U. S. Navy. Commander J. M. B. Clitz. Lieutenant Koutz to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 21, 1863. Sir: In compliance with your order to state to you in writing the distance of the British steamer Victor from the island of Cuba at the time of her capture, I have to say that, in my opinion, she was between six and ten miles distant from the nearest land. I deem it proper to say, too, after Commander Stevens had decided that the vessel was some distance outside of a marine league, he took the precaution to call upon several of the officers for their opinions as to the distance from the nearest land; and that while the officers differed, none considered the distance to the nearest land less than five miles. I may say, too, that the master of the Victor did not seem to avoid this vessel; on the contrary, he seemed to be courting capture. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, ALBERT KOUTZ, Lieutenant and Master U. S. Steamer Juniata. Commander J. M. B. Clitz, Commanding U. S. Steamer Juniata. Acting Master Stimson to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 21, 1863. Sir: In obedience to your order of this date, I submit the following statement, in answer to the charges made against me by the captain and chief engineer of the steamer Victor: I am accused of using, unnecessarily, violent and abusive language to the officers and crew of that vessel when I boarded her to examine her papers and cargo; also, of breaking open the packages containing her cargo; and after the Juniata had taken possession of that vessel, on being remonstrated with by the chief engineer, replying, that “I did not care a damn; that Admiral Wilkes’s orders were to seize every damned thing going to the westward, and we would do so.” And also, when they requested to be allowed to take their baggage with them on board the Juniata, that I replied, “they should not take a damned stitch.” These statements are false in every particular. I did not use any violent or abusive language whatever, and I made no statement with regard to orders received from Admiral Wilkes. I did not examine the packages containing the cargo of the vessel; but they were all opened by the mate of the steamer, his captain giving him orders to do so, at my request, as I wished to judge as to their contents, not being able to do so from the vessel’s manifest, the contents of the packages not being stated on that paper. I also beg leave to call your attention to the statement of Mr. Pollard, the engineer sent to take charge of the engines of the Victor, he having heard all the conversation which took place between myself and the crew of the Victor after I went on board to take charge of that vessel. Hoping that this statement will prove satisfactory, I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. H. STIMSON, Acting Master. Commander J. M. B. Clitz, Commanding U. S. Steamer Juniata. Engineer Pollard to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 22, 1863. Sir: I respectfully submit this statement of the facts in relation to the steamer Victor. I was sent on board of her by Captain Stevens to take charge of her machinery. On my arrival on board I proposed to the engineer then in charge to go ahead and assist in taking the vessel into Key West; that I would give him all the assistance I could. He refused to have anything to do with the vessel at all, unless he was ordered to do so by his captain, who was then on board the Juniata. On looking around the engine I discovered that the rods Were dismounted from the link; also that there were no tools on board, not even a screw-wrench, hammer, or chisel. I returned on board the Juniata, and reported these facts to Captain Stevens, when, after consulting with the chief engineer and his captain, the second engineer returned to the Victor and consented to work the engines himself. After trying in vain thirty minutes to start her ahead, I proposed to him to examine the expansive gear. On doing this he found that the valves had been screwed together, thereby closing all communication to the cylinder for the steam. At which discovery he seemed very much surprised, and denied all knowledge of how or why this was done, although he said that he alone had the whole management of the engine since leaving Havana. After this difficulty was removed we had no further trouble with the machinery at all. That same night he himself found all the tools belonging to the engine, such as hammers, chisels, wrenches, oil-feeders, and everything requisite. In relation to the charge made against Prize-master James Stimson, I deny that any abusive or violent language was used by that gentleman; but, on the contrary, and under the circumstances, he was very cool and self-possesscd, and treated both officers and crew with consideration. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WILLIAM POLLARD, Second Assistant Engineer U. S. Navy. Commander John B. Clitz, Commanding U. S. Steamer Juniata. Members of steerage mess to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 21, 1863. Sir: Having read certain statements of the officers of the steamer Victor as to their being ill treated whilst aboard this vessel as prisoners, allow us respectfully to make the following statement on our behalf: The captain of the Victor was taken into our mess, and treated with all the consideration and kindness which was possible. None could be more astonished than we were at the statements, which are entirely false. Respectfully, &c., REUBEN RICH, Acting Master’s Mate, WILLIAM MASTER, Paymaster’s Clerk, THOMAS NELSON, Paymaster’s Steward, Members of Steerage Mess. Commander J. M. B. Clitz. Engineers of the Juniata to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata. Sir: Having read some documents made by the officers of the steamer Victor as to their ill treatment whilst aboard of this vessel, we respectfully submit the following statement on our part: The senior engineer and his assistant were taken into our (the engineers’) mess, and treated as messmates in every particular, two of our number giving up their beds to the captain and senior engineer of the Victor, whilst the assistant engineer slept in the same bed with one of the engineers of this vessel. During their entire stay in this vessel, nearly two weeks, they were treated with courtesy and consideration, and not permitted to contribute a single cent towards the expenses of the mess. Respectfully, your obedient servants, FRANCIS CRONIN, Second Assistant Engineer. WM. POLLARD, Second Assistant Engineer. PHILIP H. WHITE, Third Assistant Engineer. RICHARD D. DODGE, Third Assistant Engineer. ALBERT G. BONSALL, Third Assistant Engineer. Commander J. B. M. Clitz, Commanding Juniata. Surgeon Schriver to Commander Clitz . United States Steamer Juniata, Cape Haytien, September 22, 1863. Sir: In relation to the treatment of the master and crew of the Victor during their detention on board of this vessel, I have to state that no instance of harshness or severity came under my observation. On the morning after the capture the master, Pearce, applied to me for medical assistance, which was promptly rendered. The necessity resulted from a want of his habitual stimulus, (brandy and water,) to the free use of which he stated he had been long accustomed. One of the crew was treated successfully for ulcer of the leg during his sojourn on board. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ALBERT SCHRIVER, Surgeon. Commander J. M. B. Clitz, Commanding United States Steamer Juniata,
