# Foreign Relations of the United States, Diplomatic Papers, 1937, The American Republics, Volume V
Fuente: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HistoryAtState/frus/master/volumes/frus1937v05.xml
Extracción: capítulos, subcapítulos o secciones cuyo encabezado menciona Dominican/Haiti/Hayti/Santo Domingo/Trujillo/Port-au-Prince/Dajabón/Massacre River, más documentos sueltos con dos o más menciones.



# CHAPTER [ch5] Tender of good offices by the United States, Cuba, and Mexico to conciliate differences between the Dominican Republic and Haiti

---
## [d149] The Secretary of State to the Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb )
738.39/92a: Telegram

Washington , November 13, 1937—7 p.m.

29. The President last night received the telegram from the President of Haiti requesting this Government to join with the Governments of Cuba and of Mexico in tendering their good offices to Haiti and the Dominican Republic in the controversy which has arisen between them. The President intends sending a reply to the President of Haiti by telegram which reply will be sent in more or less identic terms by the Presidents of Cuba and of Mexico.

[Here follows text of telegram dated November 14 from President Roosevelt to the President of Haiti, printed on page 135 .]

The Presidents of Cuba, Mexico, and the United States will likewise send individual telegrams couched in approximately identic terms to the President of the Dominican Republic. The following is the text tentatively agreed upon:

[Here follows text of telegram dated November 14 from President Roosevelt to the President of the Dominican Republic, printed on page 136 .]

In view of the statement volunteered to you by President Trujillo that he would avail himself of the friendly services of the Government of the United States should the latter consider it desirable to make the effort to facilitate a pacific solution of the controversy, it is assumed that President Trujillo will welcome the friendly offer of the three Governments named.

It would presumably be useful for you at this juncture to seek a further conversation with President Trujillo, to emphasize the friendly and impartial spirit of the Government of the United States in the controversy, and its hope that its friendly offices together with those of Cuba and of Mexico, if accepted, may serve to bring a prompt solution satisfactory both to the Dominican Republic and to Haiti.

Please keep the Department informed by telegram of any developments.

Hull


---
## [d150] The Secretary of State to the Ambassador in Cuba ( Wright )
738.39/92b: Telegram

Washington , November 13, 1937—7 p.m.

105. The President last night received from the President of Haiti the anticipated invitation to join with Cuba and Mexico in a tender of good offices in the dispute which has arisen between Haiti and the Dominican Republic. The President intends to send a reply to the President of Haiti worded as follows:

[Here follows text of telegram dated November 14 from President Roosevelt to the President of Haiti, printed on page 135 .]

He likewise intends to send a telegram to the President of the Dominican Republic couched in the following terms:

[Here follows text of telegram dated November 14 from President Roosevelt to the President of the Dominican Republic, printed on page 136 .]

It would seem to be desirable that these messages sent individually by the three Presidents should be as similar in text as possible and that they be sent simultaneously.

Please obtain the point of view of the Government of Cuba with regard to the texts above quoted and suggest that should the Government of Cuba be in accord, the telegrams both to the President of Haiti and to the President of the Dominican Republic be sent at the same hour from Habana, Mexico City, and Washington. I suggest that 7 p.m., tomorrow, November 14, might be a convenient hour to the three Governments concerned.

Please telegraph me as promtly as possible what the decision of the Government of Cuba may be. You may state that the Government of Mexico is in accord with the texts indicated.

Hull


---
## [d151] The Ambassador in Cuba ( Wright ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/94: Telegram

Habana , [ undated ]. [Received November 14, 1937—3:50 p.m.]

90. Your No. 105, November 13, 7 p.m. The Cuban Secretary of State whom I saw this afternoon showed me the texts of the telegrams sent by his Government yesterday morning to the Presidents of Haiti and the Dominican Republic which are of the same import as those which the President of the United States proposes to send.

The Cuban Government is therefore in full concurrence and proposes to appoint as its representative the Cuban Minister to the Dominican Republic. In answer to the Secretary’s inquiry as to our representative and that of Mexico I said that I assumed that Norweb would be proposed in view of his return to his post although a delegate to the Radio Conference but that I had no information as to the representative of Mexico.

Wright


---
## [d152] President Roosevelt to the President of Haiti ( Vincent )
738.39/101: Telegram

Washington , November 14, 1937 .

Great and Good Friend : I have received Your Excellency’s telegram dated November 12, Not printed. advising me that a situation of tension has unhappily arisen between Your Excellency’s Government and that of the Dominican Republic to the prejudice of the present interests of the two peoples and to the harmony of their future friendship. Your Excellency states that, inspired by the spirit of friendship and solidarity advocated by the inter-American agreements concluded in the interest of the maintenance of peace between the peoples of this hemisphere, you request the good offices of the Government of the United States in aiding in a just and prompt solution of the difference now existing between the Republic of Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Your Excellency further advises me that you are making the same request of the Presidents of Cuba and of Mexico in the hope that they may be associated with the Government of the United States in this work of justice and of humanity.

I have learned with profound regret of the controversy which has unfortunately arisen between our sister republics of Haiti and of the Dominican Republic. The Government of the United States possesses no more sincere hope than that the maintenance of peace between the American Republics may be firmly assured and that the friendship and understanding between them may be constantly enhanced. In the hope that it may thereby promote that ideal, the Government of the United States stands ready to join in extending its friendly services in an effort to further the attainment of a pacific solution of the present controversy, satisfactory to both parties thereto, and in the event that these good offices likewise prove acceptable to the Government of the Dominican Republic, it will be happy, jointly with the Governments of Cuba and of Mexico, to tender its good offices to Your Excellency’s Government and to the Government of the Dominican Republic.

I avail myself [etc.]

Franklin D. Roosevelt


---
## [d153] President Roosevelt to the President of the Dominican Republic ( Trujillo )
738.39/101: Telegram

Washington , November 14, 1937 .

Great and Good Friend : His Excellency, the President of Haiti, has communicated with Their Excellencies, the Presidents of Cuba and of Mexico, and with me, requesting our friendly services in order to further a satisfactory adjustment of the difficulty which has unfortunately arisen between the Governments of the Dominican Republic and of Haiti. The Government of the United States and the Governments of Cuba and of Mexico stand ready to tender their good offices if Your Excellency feels disposed to accept these friendly services. The Governments invited trust that Your Excellency may welcome the step proposed since the peaceful aims which animate the Dominican Government are well known. In offering this friendly assistance, the three Governments believe that they are acting in accordance with the traditional desire for peace of our new world, and in strict conformity with the spirit displayed by all of the American Republics in the Conference at Buenos Aires.

I renew [etc.]

Franklin D. Roosevelt


---
## [d154] The President of the Dominican Republic ( Trujillo ) to President Roosevelt
738.39/103: Telegram

[Translation]

Ciudad Trujillo , November 15, 1937 . [Received 8:40 p.m.]

Great and Good Friend : It gives me very great pleasure to acknowledge to Your Excellency the receipt of the kind message in which you advise me that in accordance with the invitation given it by the Government of Haiti the United States Government is disposed to offer, together with the Governments of Cuba and Mexico, its good offices for the purpose of promoting a satisfactory settlement of the incident that occurred in the northern zone of the Dominican-Haitian frontier between nationals of the two countries. I hasten first of all to express to Your Excellency the deep satisfaction produced both to me and my Government by the noble interest which Your Excellency displays in the maintenance of continental harmony and peace, whereby your vigorous personality as a friend of peace presents itself once more to the admiration and respect of all of us, who are laboring on the continent with sincerity and true devotion for the union and good understanding of the American nations. I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that up to this time the Haitian Government has not given the Dominican Government any notification or indication enabling it to know in what the controversy consists that it has been necessary to cite to justify the request for good offices under the convention on that point signed at the Buenos Aires Conference for the Maintenance of Peace. See Department of State Conference Series No. 33: Report of the Delegation of the United States of America to the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, Buenos Aires, Argentina, December 1–23, 1936 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1937), pp. 227, 228 (paragraph numbered 2). As soon as the Dominican Government learns of the point which, according to the Haitian Government, is the subject of controversy in connection with the incident mentioned, the Dominican Government will hasten to define its line of action as to whether it accepts or whether mediation or good offices shall proceed. Respecting the noble spirit of pacifism that inspired the conventions signed by the nations of America at the recent Buenos Aires Conference, and still in agreement with the said conventions, which constitute the highest example of Pan American concord and solidarity, the Dominican Government will bear in mind the lofty purpose of those treaties and will subject its conduct at all times to the stipulations of the same.

I avail myself [etc.]

Rafael L. Trujillo


---
## [d155] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
738.39/110: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , November 17, 1937—noon . [Received 1:30 p.m.]

46. The message from the President of Mexico was received this morning and replied to in identic terms with the answer sent President Roosevelt.

Norweb


---
## [d156] The Secretary of State to All Diplomatic Missions in the American Republics Except Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Mexico
738.39/200a: Circular telegram

Washington , December 14, 1937—7 p.m.

You are requested to transmit the following note to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Government to which you are accredited: “I have been instructed to present to Your Excellency the following statement: “‘At the invitation of the President of the Republic of Haiti, the Presidents of the Republics of Cuba, Mexico and the United States tendered their good offices to the President of the Dominican Republic and the President of Haiti with a view to seeking a pacific solution of the unfortunate dispute which had arisen between these two American nations. “‘In tendering this friendly assistance, the three invited governments believed that they were acting in accordance with the traditional desire for peace of our New World and in strict conformity with the spirit displayed by all the American Republics in the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace recently held at Buenos Aires. “‘On November 15, the President of the Dominican Republic replied to the Presidents of Cuba and of the United States, and subsequently in identic terms to the President of Mexico, professing satisfaction at the tender of good offices but reserving action pending receipt of information as to the grounds upon which the Haitian Government based its request to the three invited governments. The President of the Dominican Republic added that upon learning the point which the Haitian Government considered to be the subject of controversy the Dominican Government would hasten to define its line of action. “‘Although the Haitian Minister in Ciudad Trujillo had communicated to the Dominican Government the reasons motivating the invitation of the President of Haiti for good offices, the Ministers of Cuba and of the United States at Ciudad Trujillo (there being no Mexican diplomatic representative there) on November 18 requested an interview with the President of the Dominican Republic to deliver to him a copy in translation of the original invitation from the President of Haiti requesting the good offices of the three friendly governments; and they were accorded this interview on November 22. “‘Meanwhile, the President of the Dominican Republic on November 20, appointed three special envoys to the invited governments to assist the already regularly accredited Ministers then resident at the capitals of those nations. “‘Shortly after the arrival in Washington of the Dominican special envoys to the United States and to Mexico, and upon the initiative of the Dominican Government, informal and confidential conversations were held at the Mexican Embassy on December 2 and 3 between these two special envoys and the Dominican Minister in Washington representing the Dominican Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Haiti and the Haitian Minister in Washington representing the Haitian Government, and the Mexican Ambassador, the Cuban Chargé d’Affaires and the Under Secretary of State of the United States of America representing the three invited governments. “‘After hearing an ample exposition of the points of view of the two governments party to the dispute, the representatives of the three invited governments arrived at the following conclusions: (1) that regrettable incidents involving the loss of life of an undetermined number of Haitian citizens had occurred in the Dominican Republic; (2) that direct negotiation between the two governments concerned had thus far been unproductive; (3) that negotiation by means of informal conversations participated in by the three invited powers had likewise been unproductive; and (4) that the incidents had assumed an international aspect. “‘In connection with point (3) above, the representatives of the invited governments had suggested that if the Dominican Government should accept the formal tender of good offices, a Commission composed of representatives to be designated by the three invited governments should be constituted. “‘This Commission was to have proceeded to Port-au-Prince to obtain information which the Haitian Government might have desired to furnish for the purpose of assisting the Dominican authorities to clarify the facts. The Commission would then have proceeded to Ciudad Trujillo there to remain until an investigation to have been undertaken exclusively by the Dominican authorities had in the opinion of the Commission itself been terminated. “‘This investigation would have included an inquiry in particular into every one of the cases covered in the information proffered by the Haitian Government to the International Commission. A report of this investigation would have been communicated in full to the Commission. “‘On behalf of the Government of Haiti, the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 3 formally accepted the proposal as outlined above. The Dominican representatives agreed to communicate the proposal to their government immediately and to meet on December 8, when they would be prepared to communicate the reply of the Dominican Government. “‘At the meeting on December 8, the representatives of the Dominican Republic stated that they had as yet received no instructions and requested a postponement, giving formal assurances that they would have instructions on December 10 or the morning of December 11 at the latest. “‘On December 11, the Dominican Delegation presented an extensive memorandum, in which it set forth its points of view, to the effect that the request for good offices was without justification and that the formula, presented by the representatives of the three invited powers, should be replaced by a program which the Dominican Government submitted for the consideration of the Haitian Government; a program which provided: “‘(1) Reaffirmation by the two governments of the diplomatic agreement of October 15, 1937. “‘(2) Continuation of the investigation already inaugurated and greatly advanced by the Dominican Government. “‘Guarantees would be given which, in the opinion of the Dominican Government, would suffice to satisfy the Haitian Government. “‘The representatives of the three invited governments limited themselves to transmitting to the Minister of Haiti the memorandum mentioned above. “‘The representatives of the three invited governments, after mature deliberation, came to the conclusion that the incident in question had become a factor susceptible of disturbing the peace of the American continent. It will be recalled in this connection that the 21 American Republics declared at the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace “that every act susceptible of disturbing the peace of America affects each and every one of them”. From resolution XXVII, Declaration of Principles of Inter-American Solidarity and Co-operation, Report of the Delegation , pp. 227, 228. “‘The representatives of the three governments, anticipating that the Government of Haiti would not accept the proposal offered by the Dominican Government, recommended to the Minister of Haiti for the information of his Government that the Government of Haiti take every possible means of avoiding measures tending to aggravate the situation, and that the Government of Haiti resort to the international treaties in force between the Dominican Government and the Republic of Haiti. “‘On the 14th of December the Government of Haiti stated that it had invoked the Gondra Treaty of 1923 and the Convention on Conciliation of 1929. The treaty between the United States and other American Republics signed at Santiago, May 3, 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 308 , is known as the Gondra Treaty. It was supplemented by the General Convention of Inter-American Conciliation, signed at Washington, January 5, 1929, ibid. , 1929, vol. i , p. 653 . The Governments of Cuba, Mexico, and the United States trust that the procedure contained in the Inter-American peace instruments resorted to by the Haitian Government may obtain a satisfactory solution of the controversy, the notice of which would undoubtedly be greeted with sincere gratification by all of the American Republics.’”

Hull


---
## [d157] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
738.39/219: Telegram

Washington , December 20, 1937—2 p.m.

78. On December 18 the President received the following telegram from the President of the Dominican Republic: “I have the honor to state to Your Excellency that as the Haitian Government has had recourse to the Permanent Commission instituted by the Gondra Pact, in its duties of conciliation, for the settlement of the questions in connection with which it asked Your Excellency and Their Excellencies President Cardenas, of the United States of Mexico, and Laredo Bru of the Republic of Cuba, to exercise your good offices before my Government, there is now no absence of grounds for seeking the formula for friendly cooperation requested by His Excellency the President of Haiti. My Government will concur in the conciliation procedure initiated by Haiti, with the same desire it has always cherished of giving the Government and people of Haiti the most complete satisfaction with regard to any legitimate claim that they may present on the ground of the regrettable and regretted incidents that occurred in Dominican territory early in October. I can thus assure Your Excellency that my Government will not give the slightest ground for a disturbance of the peace of America, in the preservation of which all the peoples of the New World have so great a legitimate interest and which constitutes the lofty and noble concern of Your Excellency. Permit me therefore, Excellency, to express to you the satisfaction and the gratitude of my people, those of my Government, and those of myself personally, for the noble efforts made by Your Excellency and your Government to prevent the situation between the Dominican and Haitian Governments from being converted, because of the frontier incidents, into a factor capable of disturbing the peace of America. I am, etc.”

The President has this morning sent the following telegram in reply: “I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency’s telegram advising me that inasmuch as the Haitian Government has had recourse to the peace procedure provided for in the Gondra Treaty of 1923 and in the Conciliation Convention of 1929 for the purpose of finding a peaceful solution of the controversy which unfortunately exists between Your Excellency’s Government and the Government of Haiti, the Government of the Dominican Republic will take part in the procedure invoked by the Government of Haiti. Permit me further to express my gratification by reason of Your Excellency’s statement that the Government of the Dominican Republic will not give the slightest ground for a disturbance of the peace of America, in the preservation of which all the peoples of the New World have so great and legitimate an interest. I extend to Your Excellency my most sincere wishes that the controversy which regrettably exists between two sister republics may obtain a rapid, just, and pacific solution through the utilization of the inter-American peace instruments to which they have now announced their determination to have recourse. I am, etc.”

You may desire at an appropriate opportunity to advise President Vincent of the texts of these two messages.

Hull


---
## [d169] The Secretary of State to the Diplomatic Missions in Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, and Paraguay
810.34 Leasing/23a: Circular telegram

Washington , August 12, 1937—6 p.m.

[Here follows text the same as in circular of August 9, 6 p.m., page 151 , with addition of paragraph here printed inserted before final paragraph of that circular.]

4. The proposed leases of destroyers would under no circumstances be made in such instances or in such a manner as would serve to promote armaments races as among nations or to stimulate the establishment of naval forces in those countries which do not now have naval forces; nor would leases in any other respect be made in a way that would be inconsistent with the principles for the maintenance of peace and disarmament incorporated in the treaties, conventions and resolutions of the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace at Buenos Aires, See Department of State Conference Series No. 33: Report of the Delegation of the United States of America to the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, Buenos Aires, Argentina, December 1–23, 1936. and with the principles of this Government’s foreign policy which I had occasion to summarize in my statement of July 16 last. Vol. i , p. 699 .

Hull



# CHAPTER [ch11] Agreement between the United States of America, Canada, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Mexico respecting regional broadcasting, signed at Habana December 13, 1937

---
## [ch11] Agreement between the United States of America, Canada, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, and Mexico respecting regional broadcasting, signed at Habana December 13, 1937
[For text of agreement, see Department of State Treaty Series No. 962, or 55 Stat. 1005.]



# CHAPTER [ch27] Negotiations for a convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic modifying the convention of December 27, 1924, regarding Dominican customs revenue

---
## [d458] The Secretary of State to the Dominican Minister ( Pastoriza )
839.51/4489a

Washington , February 10, 1937 .

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of January 23, Not printed. in which you inform me that you have been intrusted, together with Dr. Max Henriquez Ureña, Dominican Minister to Great Britain. with the initiation of conversations looking to the concerting of a commercial understanding between the Dominican Republic and this country and with a revision of the Convention concluded in 1924. Signed December 27, 1924, Foreign Relations , 1924, vol. i , p. 662 .

As no doubt you will recall, this Government has on more than one occasion indicated to the Dominican Government informally that it would be glad to give the most favorable consideration to any concrete proposal advanced to it by the Dominican Government looking towards a revision of the 1924 Convention.

There is little need for me to remind you of the fact which I feel sure every Dominican realizes, that the loans obtained by the Dominican Government since 1907 have been rendered possible on comparatively easy terms primarily because of the commitments undertaken by the United States. Dominican Government bonds have been purchased by nationals of the United States as well as by nationals of other countries because of the terms of the Convention, and consequently, this Government owes these bondholders a very definite responsibility, so that it cannot agree to abrogate the treaty unless the legitimate rights of the bondholders are fully respected.

The Government of the United States believes that it has with increasing frequency in recent years amply demonstrated its regard and sympathy towards legitimate Dominican aspirations. As an instance of this, I might mention the considerate attitude of this Government concerning the emergency plan adopted in 1933. See ibid ., 1933, vol. v , pp. 589 ff. The United States has consistently refrained, in all cases where it did not consider that the interests of the bondholders might be prejudiced thereby, from the strict and legalistic interpretation upon which it might well have insisted of the terms of the Convention of 1924. Provided these acquired interests of the bondholders are respected, this Government has no interest in continuing the present provisions of the Convention of 1924, nor the general receivership as a treaty entity. On the contrary, in accordance with its determined policy of refraining from any form of activity involving participation by it, even through treaty right, in the domestic concerns of the other American republics, the Government of the United States would welcome the opportunity, upon the basis above stated, of relinquishing the obligations which it assumed under the terms of the Convention of 1924.

Likewise, as respects the negotiation of a commercial understanding, I am glad to assure you that this Government will be most happy to examine the question anew in a spirit of friendly and frank understanding. I should be lacking in candor, were I not to remind you in this regard, that the American Government has been concerned at the apparent delay of the Dominican Government in extending full most-favored-nation treatment on the basis of the existing Modus Vivendi of 1924, Exchange of notes, September 25, 1924, Foreign Relations , 1924, vol. i , pp. 667 – 670 . to American products similar in character to those products of French firms listed in Annex B of the Modus Vivendi forming part of the recently concluded Franco-Dominican trade convention. Signed September 4, 1936, France, Journal Officiel , September 30, 1936, p. 10298.

This Government has been disappointed at the apparent inconsistency of this recent attitude of the Dominican Government as contrasted with its support of the resolution advocating more liberal and non-discriminatory tariff policies adopted at the Seventh International Conference of American States at Montevideo in 1933, Resolution V, Economic, Commercial, and Tariff Policy, Report of the Delegates of the United States of America to the Seventh International Conference of American States, Montevideo, Uruguay, December 3–26, 1933 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1934), p. 196. and reaffirmed and amplified in two resolutions at the recent Inter-American Conference at Buenos Aires. Resolution XLIV, Equality of Treatment in International Trade, and Resolution XLVI, Restrictions on International Trade, Report of the Delegation of the United States of America to the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace, Buenos Aires, Argentina, December 1–23, 1936 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1937), pp. 240 and 242. You will appreciate further that, before considering the negotiation of a new commercial agreement with the Dominican Republic, this Government necessarily feels that its unquestioned right to receive most-favored-nation treatment as respects United States products imported into the Dominican Republic pledged in the Modus Vivendi of 1924, should first be honored.

I shall, of course, be glad to receive you and your colleague, Señor Henriquez Ureña, at any time, and I have to suggest that you need only to confirm an appointment with my office by telephone. At the same time, I venture to propound to you that little progress can be made as respects the negotiations envisaged until the Dominican Government has prepared the concrete proposal mentioned above which I desire to reiterate will receive my earnest consideration.

Accept [etc.]

Cordell Hull


---
## [d459] Memorandum by the Secretary of State
839.51/4491

[ Washington ,] February 11, 1937 .

The Minister of Santo Domingo, accompanied by the Dominican Minister to London, Dr. Enrique [ Henríquez ] Ureña, came in and handed me the attached note from their government. Infra.

I thanked the two gentlemen for calling and for the note and assured them that I would examine it with interest and care and give it the fullest consideration. I repeated what so many times Mr. Welles Sumner Welles, Assistant Secretary of State. and I have said to them that our Government is very desirous of clearing up every undesirable condition existing between this Government and every government in Latin America; that I earnestly hoped that the Government of Santo Domingo would be able to meet us half way in this righteous undertaking; and that this Government, if possible, is even more anxious than the Government of Santo Domingo to get this undertaking accomplished. I added that, of course, if we should fail to carry out our trusteeship for American bondholders, which was assumed by a predecessor of mine, the United States Senate would not ratify the agreement, and it would go for naught. I elaborated somewhat upon the foregoing lines of conversation. They exhibited a thoroughly agreeable and sympathetic attitude.

C[ ordell ] H[ ull ]


---
## [d460] The Dominican Envoys Extraordinary on Special Mission ( Pastoriza and Henríquez Ureña ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4490

[Translation]

Washington , February 11, 1937 .

Mr. Secretary of State : In your kind note of February 10, 1937, addressed to Minister Pastoriza, Your Excellency, after stating that you are informed of the desire of the Dominican Government to undertake a complete revision of the Dominican-American Convention of 1924, declares that you are disposed to hear the concrete suggestions on the matter that our Government may wish to formulate.

In response to those indications, we have the honor to send to Your Excellency a draft of a protocol containing the ideas of the Dominican Government.

We do not believe it necessary to reiterate our Government’s opinion that the 1924 Convention must be replaced by another instrument more in harmony with the needs of the present time and with the present trend of Pan-American international life. Applying an identical opinion, and taking as a basis the broad and shining “good neighbor” policy, the United States has already modified other treaties of past epochs, such as those which it had made with Haiti, Foreign Relations , 1931, vol. ii , p. 505 ; ibid ., 1932, vol. v , p. 699 ; ibid ., 1933, vol. v , p. 755 ; ibid ., 1934, vol. v , p. 305 . Cuba Signed May 29, 1934, ibid ., p. 183 . and Panama. Signed March 2, 1936; for text, see Department of State Treaty Series No. 945, or 53 Stat. 1807. For previous correspondence, see Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 889 ff.

In proposing the modification of the 1924 Convention (which has been in existence for thirty years, strictly speaking, since it was a reproduction, with slight variations, of the 1907 Convention Signed February 8, 1907, ibid ., 1907, pt. 1, p. 307 . ), the Dominican Government does not propose any stipulation tending to diminish even in the slightest [degree] Brackets appear in the file translation. the guarantees of payment offered previously to the holders of bonds of the Dominican public debt. The mechanism established for the payment of the debt differs, undoubtedly, in external details, in order to render it compatible with the idea of Dominican sovereignty, but the guarantees are exactly the same, and provision is still made for reestablishing the procedure provided in the Convention which it is intended to replace, at any period of justified uneasiness, while the causes for such uneasiness last. We believe that such a contingency is outside any probability, not only because conditions in the country are very different from those which prevailed thirty years ago, but also because one of the defects of the two Conventions, the one of 1907 and the one of 1924, was that of establishing terms and conditions for amortization that were beyond the economic capacity of the Republic, and those terms and conditions have been expressly modified by means of an agreement with the bondholders, in such a way that the Dominican Republic will be able to accomplish the service on the debt at all times without difficulties, until its final payment. But although such a contingency may be improbable, we have wished to provide for it expressly, in order to make it impossible for any creditor to think that he does not count on the same guarantees of payment.

Other points, the modification of which we consider essential, are those referring to the concept of excessive limitation of the sovereign power of the Dominican Republic to change its tariffs and the concept, also too restricted, of what may be considered an increase in its public debt. It is necessary to formulate explanations of both points to avoid difficulties in interpretation in the future.

Our intention of presenting the concrete bases of revision proposed by the Dominican Government with regard to the Convention of 1924 being fulfilled, it remains for us only to mention the second point of Your Excellency’s note: that which refers to the conclusion of a commercial treaty between the United States of America and the Dominican Republic. Your Excellency lays down as a preliminary question the necessity for the Dominican Government to apply the most-favored nation clause to the United States, in connection with the commercial treaty which it has concluded with France. Reserving the right to discuss this point more fully, we take pleasure in advising Your Excellency that the Dominican Government has expressed its juridical opinion on the matter, as a question of doctrine, but has the greatest desire to arrive at an understanding with the Government of the United States as to the application of that principle.

We believe it possible, in conversations on the subject to be held in the near future, to arrive at a satisfactory and harmonious formula, in order to initiate, immediately thereafter, the negotiations for the commercial treaty between the two countries.

We avail ourselves [etc.]

Andres Pastoriza Max Henríquez Ureña

[Enclosure—Translation] Dominican Draft of a Protocol To Replace the Convention of December 27, 1924, Between the United States and the Dominican Republic Whereas a convention between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America, containing provisions ‘for the aid of the United States in the collection and application of the customs revenues of the Dominican Republic, was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries in the City of Washington on the twenty-seventh of December, 1924; Whereas this convention was concluded for the purpose of facilitating the system of payments of the public debt of the Dominican Republic, and subsequently the said debt has been considerably reduced; Whereas the Dominican Republic has arrived at an agreement See communications of December 15, 1936, exchanged between the Dominican Government and the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Inc., published in the Council’s Annual Report 1936 (New York, 1937), pp. 348–352. with the holders of the bonds of said public debt, who have consented to an extension of the amortization periods, subjecting moreover the capacity of the Republic, to make amortization payments, to a sliding scale in proportion to the increase of the customs revenues, and thus there is no doubt that the Dominican Republic will be in a position to satisfy without difficulty the debt service until its final payment, and all this is set forth in the certificates legally annexed to said bonds under date of January 2 and February 2, 1937; Whereas experience has demonstrated that certain provisions in the convention of 1924 may hinder the action of the Dominican State intended to develop the natural resources of the country and the progressive extension of its industry and commerce; Whereas the Dominican Republic has requested the cooperation of the United States of America to put into execution a new protocol which shall take into account these circumstances and the new provisions agreed upon with the bondholders with regard to manner of payment of the public debt; and the United States is disposed to give such cooperation; The Government of the United States of America, represented by . . . . . . . . . . .; and the Government of the Dominican Republic, represented by . . . . . . . . . . . have agreed upon the following: Article I The Dominican Republic shall maintain, as guarantee of the punctual performance of the service of its public debt, its revenues in the form of customs duties, in conformity with the provisions in force with the holders of bonds of the debt; and such guarantee shall be maintained until payment has been made of each and every one of the bonds issued by the Dominican Government, based on the loans referred to by the Convention concluded by the Government of the United States of America on December 27, 1924, and subject to the conditions and limitations accepted by the bondholders in conformity with the agreement made in 1936, which are set forth in the bonds renewed under date of January 2, and February 2, 1937. Article II The Dominican Republic undertakes to apply in the order indicated below the proceeds of the customs duties collected in the various customs houses of the Republic; First, to the payment of the expenses of the office of the Fiscal Representative of the debt; second, to the payment of the interest on pending bonds; third, to the payment of the annual amounts stipulated for the amortization of said bonds, in conformity with the agreements now in force, including the interest on all bonds retained as a sinking fund; fourth, to the purchase and cancellation or retirement and cancellation of any of said bonds, in accordance with the terms thereof, as may be decided by the Dominican Government; fifth, the remainder shall be applied to the general expenses of the nation, in accordance with decisions made by the public authorities of the Dominican Republic. Article III The Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders shall designate, with the previous approval of the President of the United States of America, a Fiscal Representative for the collection of the Dominican public debt, and the Dominican Government shall deliver to said Fiscal Representative, on the 20th of each calendar month, a sum equal to the twelfth part of the annual interest on all bonds issued and of the annual amounts indicated for the amortization of said bonds in accordance with the provisions in force with the bondholders. In his turn, the Fiscal Representative shall deliver said sum to the Fiscal Agent of the loan, on the first day of the calendar month next succeeding. In the same way, the Dominican Government shall deliver to the Fiscal Representative, against a receipt, signed on the 20th of each calendar month, the amount necessary to pay the expenses of the office of said Fiscal Representative, and of the subordinate officials that he needs for executing the duties of his office. The said amount cannot in any case exceed three percent of the collections of the customs revenues. Article IV The Fiscal Representative shall supervise the functioning of the customhouses of the Republic, and shall report to the Secretary of the Treasury of the Dominican Republic any error or deficiency that he notices in the service; he shall, moreover, keep an account of the statistical data of the customs activities and the trade of the Republic with other countries; and shall make an annual report, which shall be submitted to both governments, in the Spanish and English languages. The employees under the Fiscal Representative shall be appointed by said Fiscal Representative on approval of the President of the Dominican Republic. Article V If by reason of a disturbance of public order or because of any other unforeseen force other than a force apart from human will, or a public calamity such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires or epidemics, the Dominican Government should find it impossible to meet the service on the public debt on the date fixed for payment thereof, the Dominican Government will consent that the Fiscal Representative take charge, before the first day of the following month, of those customhouses the collections from which he considers sufficient to guarantee punctual service on the public debt, and he shall directly collect the customs duties the revenue from which he shall assign, firstly, for meeting the expenses of his office; secondly, for the payment of the interest on all bonds outstanding; thirdly, for the payment of the amounts fixed for the amortization of said bonds; and fourthly, he shall place the remainder at the disposal of the Dominican Government. The payment of the amortization and the interest on the bonds shall be calculated every month by twelfths, and shall be made to the Fiscal Agent for the loan on the first day of each calendar month. When the causes that brought about the direct intervention of the Fiscal Representative in the customs service have ceased and the situation of the country is considered normalized, the Fiscal Representative shall again turn over the custom houses in which he has intervened to the competent officials of the Dominican Government, and his duties shall again be adjusted to the rules laid down in Articles III and IV. During the whole period that his intervention lasts, the office expenses of the Fiscal Representative may not amount to a sum greater than five percent of the customs revenue. Article VI The Dominican Government shall render to the Fiscal Representative and his assistants all the aid and support that may be necessary, as well as the broadest protection in the discharge of their duties and the exercise of the powers granted to them in the foregoing articles, adopting for that purpose such laws and regulations as may be necessary. Article VII Until the Dominican Republic has paid off all the bonds of the Joan, its contractual public debt may not be increased, by the contracting of new loans and new bond issues, except by prior agreement between the Dominican Government and the Fiscal Representative and the Fiscal Agent of the loan, the latter representing the bondholders. Notice of this agreement must be given to the United States Government in advance. It is understood that there shall not be considered as contrary to this rule the contracts and financial arrangements made by the Dominican Government for the execution of public works and other services of national interest, provided they be adjusted to the following conditions: firstly, as a guarantee of those contracts or financial arrangements there shall be set aside the revenue from a given impost of the internal revenue service, which therefore does not affect the customs revenue, and the contracting parties must stipulate that they accept that as the sole guarantee for the performance of such obligation; and secondly, the maximum period for the liquidation of any of those contracts may not be greater than four years counting from the date on which the contract goes into effect. The Dominican Government expressly renounces the right that it has to issue new bonds up to the limit of twenty million dollars provided in the 1924 Convention. The Dominican Government may at any time sovereignly dispose of the internal revenues and imposts not set aside for guarantee and payment of the public debt and shall freely dispose of those receipts. Article VIII The Dominican Government may change its customs tariffs in accordance with the needs and advantage of its commerce, but pledges itself expressly not to reduce import duties at any time to such a point that, taking as a basis exports and imports of the same extent and the same kind for the two years preceding the year in which it is desired to make such modification, the net total of customs receipts under the tariff so modified would not have amounted, for each of the said two years, to at least one and a half times the sum needed to insure the service of interest and amortization of the public debt. Nevertheless, there shall not be considered contrary to this rule the advantages and reductions in duties which the Dominican Republic may offer to other nations through commercial treaties or agreements and which do not signify an integral lowering of the import tariff, since they relate only to a given country; provided that such reductions may not mean the risk that customs imports may be reduced more than twenty percent, the computation being made from the imports which took place in the two years previous and the numerical proportion having been established by which the total customs revenue could be diminished, if imports were maintained at the same rate. Article IX The Fiscal Representative shall render accounts monthly to the Department of State for Treasury of the Dominican Republic, the Fiscal Agent and the Department of State of the United States, and the said accounts shall be subject to examination and auditing by the competent officials of the Dominican Government. Article X Every controversy which may arise between the Contracting Parties in the execution of the stipulations of this Convention shall be settled by arbitration, if the two Governments cannot reach an agreement through diplomatic channels. For the execution of this provision in each special case, the Contracting Parties may, when the necessity for arbitration has once been determined, conclude a special agreement defining clearly the extent of the disagreement, the extent of the powers of the arbitrators and the periods that are to be fixed for the organization of the arbitral tribunal and the various stages in the proceedings. The special agreement providing for arbitration must be signed in all cases within a period of three months from the date on which either of the Contracting Parties notifies the other Contracting Party of its desire to have recourse to arbitration. It is understood that such special agreements shall be made, on the part of the United States, by the President of the United States, by and with the consent of the Senate, and that, on the part of the Dominican Republic, they shall be subject to the procedure required by its Constitution and laws. Article XI This agreement shall go into force after being approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their respective constitutional methods, but the principles and rules established in its Articles VII and VIII shall take effect immediately, as interpretation of stipulations III and IV of the convention of December twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred twenty-four, now in effect. When the ratifications of this Protocol have been exchanged, which shall be done as soon as possible, the convention between the United States of America and the Dominican Republic which contains provisions on the aid of the United States in the collection and application of the Dominican customs revenues, signed in the city of Washington on December twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred twenty-four, shall be considered as abrogated. Done in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages, in the city of Washington, on . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


---
## [d461] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Schoenfeld ) to the Assistant Secretary of State ( Welles )
839.51/4489½

Ciudad Trujillo , February 23, 1937 .

My Dear Mr. Welles : Many thanks for your letter of February 15 Not found in Department files. received yesterday, with its enclosures, being a copy of the Secretary’s memorandum of February 11, 1937 recording a conversation with Ministers Pastoriza and Henríquez Ureña of the Dominican Republic, and a copy of their note of February 10 [ 11 ] to the Secretary with an attached draft protocol for revision of the American-Dominican Convention of December 27, 1924.

In the last two paragraphs of the Dominican note I observe that the readiness of the Dominican Government is intimated to lift the discrimination against American imports here upon the condition that negotiations for a trade agreement with the United States are initiated “immediately thereafter.” Not having seen the Secretary’s note of February 10 to which this intimation seems to be an answer, I can not comment intelligently on this point but venture to refer to my letter to you of February 1 Not found in Department files. suggesting that the Dominican Government considers the discrimination a useful weapon in its relations with us. Rumors have been current here lately and have perhaps been put out for our benefit that the discrimination will be lifted shortly.

With reference to the first part of the Dominican note and the draft protocol, the Dominican Ministers are certainly candid and unmistakable in their statements of their Government’s aspirations. Little seems to have been overlooked in the draft to strip from the holders of Dominican external bonds issued under the Convention of 1924 the last tattered remnant of the guarantees provided in the Convention, save only the good faith of the Dominican Government. That, of course, is much, if we are prepared to rely on it, and calls for no uncharitable comment in view of the record of the Trujillo administration. Nevertheless, in view of the Secretary’s reference to the possible attitude of our Senate towards the proposal, some comments on the draft protocol suggest themselves, as follows: Article 1 . The phrase “customs duties” requires explicit definition in view of the Dominican Government’s past action in the matter of levying customs duties and so-called internal revenue taxes on imports. Article 2 . This article makes only incidental reference to the Fiscal Representative who under the language used lacks authority to see that the order of payments is followed. Article 3 . Under this language the Fiscal Representative will receive payments to be made by the Dominican Government but will not collect revenue. This is confirmed by the contingent power given him in Article 5 to collect. His role will be a passive one except that he must see that his office expenses do not normally exceed 3% of customs collections (presumably excluding internal revenue taxes levied on imports). If he is to collect, as distinguished from merely receiving, he will have to be granted the power. Article 4 . Since the supervisory powers of the Fiscal Representative as defined in this Article are illusory, the statistical service to be rendered by him can not be effective. His ineffectiveness is greatly increased by the second paragraph of this Article which precludes his control over his own subordinates. Article 5 . Is our Government to determine when the Fiscal Representative shall take charge of customs houses? If so, this should be stated. But this seems not to be the intent of the language used. Article 6 . Due regard to the sovereignty of the Dominican Republic would, of course, counsel acceptance of this Article if the trusteeship for the creditors is to be vested in the debtor government. Article 7 . This Article is the frank negation of our latest representations in 1936 See Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , pp. 435 ff. as to the significance of Article III of the Convention of 1924. It will be accepted or rejected as we may decide whether or not the time has come to divest ourselves of the obligation imposed by Article III of the Convention. Of course, if we accept the principle of this Article, discussion of much of the remainder of the draft protocol becomes almost superfluous. I see no middle course between accepting and rejecting it. Article 8 . The language of this Article is obscure and its meaning uncertain but the considerations outlined under Article 7 above apply substantially to Article 8, with the addendum that, in the absence of a consolidated customs tariff in the Dominican Republic, this Article as drafted is so much “eye-wash.” We have shown (my despatch No. 3511 of September 14, 1936, Not printed. page 3 et seq. ), and the Dominican Government knows (last paragraph of my despatch No. 3600 of November 3, 1936 Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 456 . ) that there is no practical limitation on this Government’s tariff bargaining power except the Modus Vivendi of 1924. Further, it seems inadvisable to insert in the protocol the “one and one half” protective provision, since the external funded debt service in 1936 required only 39% of customs revenue (excluding internal revenue taxes on imports) or about 10.6% of the Dominican Government’s total budget, and the cost of the Receivership is included in these percentages. Article 9 . A Fiscal Representative exercising the powers defined in the earlier articles of the draft protocol can hardly be held responsible for any accounts, save those relating to funds received (but not revenues collected) by him. Article 10 . Who is to formulate the compromis of arbitration if the two governments do not agree on its terms within the three months provided? Article 11 . The sweeping significance of the draft protocol is fully revealed in the first paragraph of this Article, purporting to make effective at once and in advance of ratification, as “interpretations” of Articles III and IV of the Convention, the 7th and 8th Articles of the draft protocol.

These comments suggest the essential modifications which would have to be made in the proposed protocol if it is decided that the Fiscal Representative shall have real power to safeguard the interests of the bondholders. If, however, he is not to interfere with control by the Dominican Government over all its fiscal operations, the Dominican draft would seem to require but little change or, better said, it is evident that the Dominican proposals offer a practicable basis for an agreement upon the hypothesis that the Fiscal Representative is to be a screen for complete fiscal autonomy in this Republic.

I presume it would be possible to have the proposed Dominican National Bank perform the functions of the Fiscal Representative unless the bank scheme has recently been changed. In that event, it seems to be a case of putting the cart before the horse to discuss the proposed protocol (I should call it a treaty) in advance of the establishment of the National Bank and consultation with the management of the proposed Bank. The timeliness of the proposals embodied in the draft protocol is correspondingly doubtful.

The present urgency of the Dominican Government in pressing for the conclusion of the protocol and in responding so promptly to the Secretary’s solicitation of proposals for revision of the Convention of 1924, is perhaps to be explained by the fact that the 1936 fiscal year ended with an operating deficit of nearly half a million dollars (see my strictly confidential despatch No. 3778 of February 22, 1937 Not printed. ). It is doubtless a source of no little anxiety to President Trujillo to achieve the settlement represented by the proposed protocol and to achieve it at once. He feels he must have even greater freedom than at present to manipulate the finances, aside from the conspicuous political triumph the conclusion of such an agreement would afford him.

There is still, so far as I can see, no half-way station between enforcement and abandonment of the Convention of 1924. We have not enforced it. On the presumption that we will not enforce it, I see no advantage nor even international honesty in keeping up the fiction that the two governments concerned are governed by it. At the same time, I am well aware that the fiction remains a solace to a considerable body of informed opinion, not to mention bondholders and floating debt creditors of the Dominican Government.

Sincerely yours,

H. F. Arthur Schoenfeld


---
## [d462] The Assistant Secretary of State ( Welles ) to the Dominican Minister ( Pastoriza )
839.51/4505a

Washington , March 22, 1937 .

My Dear Don Andrés : With reference to the suggested protocol which Dr. Henríquez Ureña and you presented to the Department of State on February 11 last and to our recent conversation when you and Dr. Henríquez Ureña called to see me, I am enclosing two copies of a counterproposal which I submit to you as a basis for further conversations. I should like to make it clear that the suggested draft which I am thus submitting as a possible substitution for the Convention of 1924 between our two countries is offered without any commitment, merely as a basis for discussion and that it is, of course, as you will see, predicated upon a prior understanding between the Dominican Government and representatives of the holders of Dominican Government bonds.

I shall hold myself in readiness to discuss further this suggested draft at any time with Dr. Henríquez Ureña and yourself.

With my kindest regards [etc.]

Sumner Welles

[Enclosure] American Draft of a Counterproposal To Replace the Convention of 1924 Between the United States and the Dominican Republic Whereas the Convention between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America containing provisions for the aid of the United States in the collection and application of the customs revenues of the Dominican Republic was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries in the City of Washington on the twenty-seventh of December, 1924; Whereas this Convention was concluded for the purpose of facilitating payment of the public debt of the Dominican Republic and subsequently the said debt has been reduced; Whereas the Dominican Republic has arrived at an agreement with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Incorporated, which has consented to an extension of the amortization periods for the bonds of the public debt, and to subject the capacity of the Dominican Republic to make amortization payments to a sliding scale in proportion to the increase of the customs revenues until January 1, 1939; Whereas the Dominican Republic has represented that certain provisions in the Convention of 1924 may hinder the action of the Dominican state in developing the natural resources of the country and in the progressive extension of its industry and commerce; Whereas the Dominican Republic has requested the cooperation of the United States of America to enter into a new convention which shall take into account these circumstances and the new provisions agreed upon with regard to the manner of the payment of the public debt; and the United States is disposed to give such cooperation; The United States of America, represented by (Here follow the names and titles) and the Government of the Dominican Republic, represented by (Here follow the names and titles) who, having communicated their respective full powers to each other, which have been found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following: Article I Punctual service of the external debt of the Dominican Republic shall constitute a charge upon the customs revenues of the Republic as set forth in Article III of this convention. Subject to the conditions and limitations accepted by bondholders in conformity with the agreement made on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1936, which are set forth in the bonds renewed under date of January 2 and February 2, 1937, and to the modifications introduced by the present convention, the Dominican Government shall maintain the guarantees and the general provisions stipulated in the original contracts for the existing external loans, and in the individual bonds of these loans, until payment has been made of each and every one of the bonds issued by the Dominican Republic. Article II Upon the termination of the Convention of 1924, as hereinafter provided in Article X of this Convention, the Dominican Republic shall entrust the collection and allocation of its customs revenues, with the sole authority and responsibility therefor, to a Customs Representative, who, with his principal assistants, not more than two in number, shall have been appointed for the purpose by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders. Subsequent vacancies in the positions of Customs Representative and of his two principal assistants shall be filled by appointment by the President of the Dominican Republic from a panel submitted by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders, of three names for each position vacated. The salaries of the Customs Representative and of his two principal assistants shall be established by virtue of an agreement between the Dominican Government and the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders. The office of the Customs Representative shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent of the loan on the twentieth day of each calendar month a sum equal to the twelfth part of the annual interest on all the bonds issued and outstanding, and of the annual amounts indicated for the amortization of the said bonds in accordance with the provisions in force in any agreements now existing with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council as modified by this convention. Article III The Office of the Customs Representative designated by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders shall apply in the order indicated below the proceeds of the customs duties collected in the various customhouses of the Dominican Republic: 1. To the payment of the expenses of the office of the Customs Representative, but such amount shall in no case exceed five per cent of the customs collections. Upon the closure of the accounts of the Customs Representative’s office at the end of the fiscal year, any unexpended balance under this item shall be turned over as an additional payment under item 5 of this Article to the Dominican Government; 2. To the payment of the interest on pending bonds; 3. To the payment of the annual amounts stipulated for the amortization of the said bonds, in conformity with the agreements in force on the day of signature of this convention, including the interest on all bonds retained as a sinking fund; 4. To the purchase and cancellation, or retirement and cancellation, of any of the said bonds in accordance with the terms thereof as may be decided by the Dominican Government; 5. The remainder shall be paid over to the Dominican Government. Article IV The office of the Customs Representative designated by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders shall, in its direction of the functioning of the customhouses of the Republic, give due consideration to, and undertake to remedy, in the event that in its judgment such remedial action is required, any error or deficiency in the administration of the customs which may be brought to its attention by the Secretary of the Treasury of the Dominican Republic; it shall, moreover, keep an account of the statistical data of customs activities and the trade of the Republic with other countries; and shall make an annual report in the Spanish and the English languages which shall be submitted to the Dominican Government and to the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders. The employees of the Dominican Customs Service, other than the principal assistants mentioned in Article II, shall be citizens of the Dominican Republic and appointed by the Customs Representative with the approval of the President of the Republic. Article V The Dominican Government shall render to the office of the Customs Representative designated by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders all the aid and support that may be necessary as well as the broadest protection in the discharge of its duties and the exercise of the powers granted to it in the foregoing articles, adopting for that purpose such laws and regulations as may be necessary. Article VI Until the Dominican Republic shall have paid off all its outstanding bonds, the contractual public debt may not be increased by the contracting of new loans or an emission of new bond issues except by prior agreement between the Dominican Republic and the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders. However, the Dominican Government may enter into contracts and financial arrangements for the extension of public works and other services of national interest provided that they are adjusted to the following conditions: 1. As a guarantee of those contracts or financial arrangements, there shall be set aside the receipts from any given impost of the internal revenue, which is not later to form part of the customs revenue as provided in Article VII, and these receipts shall be accepted as the sole guarantee for the performance of such obligations; and 2. The maximum period for the liquidation of any of these contracts or financial arrangements may not be greater than four years beginning from the date upon which the contract or arrangement is concluded. The Dominican Government expressly renounces the right provided in the Convention of December 27, 1924, to issue new bonds up to the limit of $20,000,000. The Dominican Government may at any time freely dispose of the internal revenues and imposts not pledged as a guarantee for the payment of the public debt. Article VII With a view to establishing a more uniform and more scientific customs tariff, the Dominican Government will amalgamate into one schedule of customs duties the existing customs duties and the charges upon imports levied under the present laws governing internal revenue taxation. The Dominican Government may thereafter modify its customs tariffs in accordance with the needs and advantage of its commerce, but pledges itself expressly not to reduce import duties at any time to such a point that, taking as a basis exports and imports of the same extent and kind for the two years preceding the year in which it is desired to make such modification, the net total customs receipts under the tariff so modified would not have amounted for each of the two said years, to at least one and a half times the sum needed to insure the service of the interest and amortization of the public debt; unless it shall have previously segregated from its internal revenue receipts, from special imposts or other charges, other than customs duties, an amount equivalent to the reduction in total customs revenues resulting from proposed modifications of its customs tariffs. In such event, the Dominican Government shall on the twentieth of each calendar month deliver against receipt to the office of the Customs Representative designated by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders from its internal revenue so segregated a sum equivalent to one-twelfth of the amount by which the annual customs revenues of the Republic shall have been diminished as the result of such customs tariff modification. Article VIII The office of the Customs Representative designated by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders shall render accounts monthly to the Secretary of the Treasury of the Dominican Republic, to the fiscal agent of the loan, and to the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders, and the said accounts shall be subject to examination and auditing by the competent officials of the Dominican Government, by the fiscal agent, and by the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders. Article IX Every controversy which may arise between the Dominican Government and the Executive Committee of Dominican Bondholders in the execution of the stipulations of this Convention and which cannot be solved by negotiations between them, shall be the subject of diplomatic negotiation between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Dominican Republic. In the event that an agreement cannot be reached through diplomatic channels between the two Governments, such controversies shall be settled by arbitration. For the execution of this provision in each special case, the contracting parties shall, when the necessity for arbitration has once been determined, conclude a special agreement defining clearly the extent of the disagreement, the extent of the powers of the arbitrators, and the periods that are to be fixed for the organization of the arbitral tribunal and the various stages in the proceedings. The special agreement providing for arbitration must be signed in all cases within a period of six months from the date on which either of the contracting parties notifies the other contracting party of its desire to have recourse to arbitration. It is understood that such special agreement shall be made on the part of the United States by the President of the United States by and with the consent of the Senate, and on the part of the Dominican Republic, it shall be subject to the procedure required by its constitution and laws. Article X This Convention shall be ratified in accordance with the constitutional methods of the High Contracting Parties. The Convention shall take effect on the first day of the first month next ensuing upon the exchange of ratifications, which shall take place at . . . . . . . ., and upon that date, the convention signed between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America on December 27, 1924, shall cease to have effect. Upon the payment in full of each and every one of the bonds issued by the Dominican Government of the loans referred to in this convention, the provisions of this convention shall automatically become null and void. In witness whereof, the Plenipotentiaries have signed this Convention in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages, both texts being authentic, and have hereunto affixed their seals. Done at the City of Washington this . . . . . day of . . . . . . . ., 1937.


---
## [d463] Memorandum by the Assistant Secretary of State ( Welles ) to the Chief of the Division of Latin American Affairs ( Duggan )
839.51/4510½

Washington , March 29, 1937 .

Mr. Duggan : Dr. Henríquez and Mr. Pastoriza came to see me this afternoon and left with me the attached draft Infra. for my consideration.

You will see from it that it is their desire to postpone for further consideration the modification of the existing Convention of 1924, in so far as the elimination of the Receivership General is concerned, until they can determine, in their opinion, whether it is practicable to obtain the creation of an Executive Committee of the bondholders, and to negotiate without further delay a convention modifying the Convention of 1924 in those points which relate to the Dominican tariff and to the interpretation of the phrase “public debt of the Republic.”

I see no objection to this procedure and I have so stated to them. I have not read this draft, which I wish you would have studied and advise me if there are any material discrepancies between it and the project I gave them for their consideration.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d464] Draft Convention Submitted by the Dominican Plenipotentiaries on March 29, 1937
839.51/4510½

March 29, 1937

[Translation]

Whereas the Convention between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America, containing provisions for the aid of the United States in the collection and application of the customs revenues of the Dominican Republic, was concluded and signed by their respective plenipotentiaries in the City of Washington on the twenty-seventh of December, 1924;

Whereas the Dominican Republic has declared that certain provisions of the Convention of 1924 may hinder the action of the Dominican State in developing the natural resources of the country and in the progressive extension of its industry and commerce;

Whereas one of these provisions stipulates that the Dominican public debt may not be increased until the bonds actually in circulation have been amortized; which provision, if no exception thereto be admitted, may create obstacles to the conclusion of financial arrangements aimed at the execution of public works which tend to the progress and well-being of the debtor nation and through this to the reinforcement of its capacity for payment;

Whereas another of these provisions forbids the Dominican Government to modify freely its customs tariff; and this provision designed to strengthen the customs revenues, which are applied to the service of the debt, may be substituted by another guarantee equally strong, such as that covering from the proceeds of other taxes the decrease which might result in the customs revenues in case that by reason of the modification of the customs tariff the amount of the said revenues should be reduced; and in exchange for offering this additional guarantee the Dominican State will always be in a position to develop without restrictions the economic policies which best suit its existing conditions;

Whereas the Dominican Republic has requested the cooperation of the United States of America to enter into a protocol complementing the said Convention, with a view to giving greater scope to the third and fourth clauses of the said instrument, which are those which contain the restrictions referred to; and the United States is disposed to give such cooperation;

The Dominican Republic represented by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and the United States of America represented by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . who, having communicated their respective full powers to each other; which have been found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following:

Article I.

The third clause of the Convention concluded between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America under date of December 27, 1924, to regulate the form of payment of the Dominican public debt, shall read as follows:

Until the Dominican Republic shall have paid the total amount of the bonds of the loan, its contractual public debt may not be increased by the contracting of new loans and new emissions of bonds, except by prior agreement between the Dominican Government and the Government of the United States. Notwithstanding, the Dominican Government may enter into contracts and financial arrangements for the execution of public works or other services of national interest, providing they are adjusted to the following conditions: 1. As a guarantee of those contracts or financial arrangements, there shall be set aside the product of a given impost of the internal revenue service or of any other impost which is not reserved to the payment of the public debt, and it shall be stipulated that this product is the sole guarantee for the performance of this obligation; and 2. The maximum period for the liquidation of any of these contracts may not be greater than four years beginning from the date upon which the contract or arrangement is concluded.

Moreover, the Dominican Government may contract a new loan whose exclusive object is to convert, refund, consolidate or amortize the bonds existing by virtue of the former loans and to liquidate entirely its existing debt, agreeing with the new lenders to the stipulations which it may consider advisable and considering definitely terminated the validity of this Convention since once each and every one of the bonds which the Dominican Government emitted by virtue of the former loans, have been paid off entirely, the provisions of this Convention will become automatically null and void.

The Dominican Government expressly renounces the right which it possesses of emitting new bonds up to the limit of $25,000,000 provided in this Convention. The Dominican Government may, at any time, freely dispose of the internal revenues and imposts not pledged as a guarantee for the payment of the public debt.

Article II.

The fourth clause of the same Convention of 1924 shall read as follows:

The Dominican Government may modify its customs tariffs in accordance with the needs and advantage of its commerce, but pledges itself expressly not to reduce import duties at any time to such a point that, taking as a basis exports and imports of the same extent and kind during the two years preceding the year in which it is desired to make such modification, the net total customs receipts, according to the tariff so modified, would not have amounted for each of the said two years, to at least one and one-half times the sum necessary to insure the service of the interest and amortization of its public debt, unless the said Dominican Government shall have previously segregated from the proceeds of its internal revenues, and special imposts which are not pledged, as are the customs duties, to the payment of the debt, an amount equivalent to the reduction in total customs revenues resulting from the proposed modifications of its customs tariff. In such event, the Dominican Government will not need to be guided by the formula stipulated; and on the twentieth of each calendar month shall place at the disposal of the General Receiver of Customs, a sum, segregated from its internal revenues and special imposts, equivalent to one-twelfth of the amount by which the annual customs revenues of the Republic shall have been diminished as a result of such customs tariff modification.

The present protocol complementary to the Convention of December 27, 1924, shall be ratified by the high contracting parties in accordance with their respective constitutional methods, and will enter into force as soon as the exchange of ratifications shall have been effected and will have the same duration as the said Convention may have.

In witness whereof the plenipotentiaries have signed this protocol in duplicate in the English and Spanish languages, both texts being authentic and have hereunto affixed their seals.


---
## [d465] The Dominican Minister ( Pastoriza ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4520

Washington , May 19, 1937 .

Mr. Secretary of State : When I had the honor to initiate conversations with Your Excellency, in January of this year, together with Minister Henríquez Ureña, towards a complete revision of the 1924 Convention between the Dominican Republic and the United States of America, I was deeply satisfied to hear Your Excellency express the sincere desire of the United States Government, in harmony with the “Good Neighbor” policy, to eliminate the said international instrument, which is the inheritance of the past.

Your Excellency thus confirmed with encouraging words the feeling which had already been expressed in Your Excellency’s note of February 10, 1937, and set forth a fact of vital importance for the progress of such conversations, namely, that however deeply interested the Dominican Republic may be in recovering its full economic sovereignty, at present restricted in several aspects by certain provisions of the said Convention, which was consented to by previous representatives of the Republic at a time when conditions in our life as a nation were different—the interest of the United States Government is just as great toward freeing itself from the embarrassing interference implied by the assistance which it agreed to lend to the Dominican Republic and which at a given moment may have been considered necessary.

It is evident, therefore, that both our Governments coincide in considering the complete revision of the 1924 Convention as vitally essential to our reciprocal advantage, and in particular, the substitution of the machinery which it provides for the service of the Dominican public debt, inasmuch as the Convention and the organization thereby established are an obstacle to the free development of a broad-minded economic policy in the Republic; require the Government to surrender constitutional powers and prerogatives, which is contrary to the spirit and to the letter of the Constitution itself; and result in intervention on the part of the Government of the United States in the internal affairs of the Dominican nation. The Dominican Republic has valued to the extent of its worth, such assistance as has been rendered to it by the United States Government, because that assistance was requested by the Dominican Republic itself at a time now past; but the Dominican Government recognizes that the desire of the Government of the United States to free itself from the obligations and duties which the continuance of such assistance would entail, is fully justified, particularly so because, as a result of a radical change of conditions in our country, such help is no longer required.

Consequently, in accordance with such identical purposes and desires on the part of both Governments, conversations tending to the desired end have taken place at the State Department from January to date, but neither the first draft which we submitted for a proposed Convention, nor a counter-project submitted by the State Department, have permitted reaching an agreement acceptable to both parties; nor do we feel that any additional progress may be made through our suggestion that the various points involved be separated in studying the problem before us, and that each be made the object of a separate convention, for even thus we have not been successful in reaching satisfactory formulae.

The Dominican Republic, in stating its desire to relieve the Government of the United States from the obligation to give assistance, and which it requested and obtained from that Government, is anxious to arrive at definite formulae which will eliminate all intervention on the part of the United States Government in our national economy. The methods thus far studied do not definitely solve the problem, and my Government consequently feels that it is preferable not to continue to take any of the drafts which have been submitted by either party as a basis of negotiation, and proposes to submit new suggestions to the United States Government in the near future, in order to continue the negotiations from a different point of view.

In announcing this intention to Your Excellency for consideration at an early opportunity, I avail myself [etc.]

Andrés Pastoriza


---
## [d466] Memorandum by the Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan )
839.51/4520

[ Washington ,] May 25, 1937 .

When the Dominican Minister was in to see me on Friday he mentioned that he was preparing a note to the Department on the subject of the negotiations to terminate the Convention of 1924. In the attached note Supra . he states that his Government intends to submit “new suggestions” in the future as a basis of negotiation. Orally the Minister informed me that these suggestions would be along the line of the bank plan regarding which we have been negotiating with Haiti. The Government apparently intends to proceed immediately to purchase the bank, and once having acquired the bank will propose that the bank handle the collection and disbursement of customs. The Minister inquired whether the proposed bank contract looked satisfactory. I told him that if he meant satisfactory from the standpoint of the new plan which the Government has in mind for customs collections and disbursements the Department would have to give very careful consideration to it. The Minister then said that he would not suggest further study of the contract until after the Department had received his new suggestions.

L[ aurence ] D[ uggan ]


---
## [d467] The Acting Secretary of State to the Dominican Minister ( Pastoriza )
839.51/4520

Washington , May 29, 1937 .

Sir : The receipt is acknowledged of your note of May 19, informing me that the Dominican Government prefers not to continue negotiations for the modification of the United States-Dominican Convention of 1924 upon the basis of the drafts which have recently been exchanged, but proposes to submit new suggestions in the near future to this Government in order to resume the negotiations from a different point of view.

In taking note of this statement, I may say that this procedure is satisfactory to this Government which will await with interest these new suggestions and which will be glad to examine them in a spirit of friendly cooperation.

Accept [etc.]

Sumner Welles


---
## [d468] The Dominican Legation to the Department of State
839.51/4532

undated

[Translation]

Suggested Changes in the Dominican Project for the New Dominican-American Convention

1. —The funds collected by the customhouses shall be deposited daily in the Branch Banks or Agencies of the National City Bank of New York in the Dominican Republic or of such bank as may be designated by mutual agreement between the Fiscal Agent and the Dominican Government. In accordance with law no. … passed by the Congress of the Dominican Republic under date of … the Bank which is the depositary of the funds collected by the customhouses of the Dominican Republic shall set aside in a special account which shall be called . . . . . . percent of the gross funds yielded by the customhouses, which funds shall be exclusively for discharging the service on the debt in the manner expressed below: a ) For the payment of the office expenses of the Fiscal Representative of the debt; b ) For the payment of the interest on all pending bonds; c ) For the payment of the annual sums designated for the amortization of the said bonds, in accordance with the arrangements now in force, including the interest on all the bonds which are held as an amortization fund; d ) For the purchase and cancellation or withdrawal of any of the said bonds in conformity with the terms thereof. 2. —The Foreign Bondholders Protective Council shall appoint a Fiscal Representative for the collection of the Dominican public debt and the bank designated by both parties as depositary shall deliver to the said Fiscal Representative on the 20th day of each natural month a sum equal to the 12th part of the annual interest on all the bonds issued and of the amounts designated for the amortization of the said bonds, in accordance with the agreements in force with the bondholders. In his turn the Fiscal Representative shall make delivery of the said sum to the Fiscal Agent of the loan. 3. —The Dominican Government, with a view to opening a better market to its bonds, agrees to provide, in accordance with law no. … of the Congress of the Dominican Republic, under date of … that, of the total of all the customs receipts and internal revenues, any sum in excess of $ . . . . . shall be assigned to the amortization fund for the purchase of its bonds on open market or by auction, as may be provided by the said Government.


---
## [d469] Memorandum by Mr. Selden Chapin of the Division of the American Republics
839.51/4530

[ Washington ,] July 7, 1937 .

Conversation: Señor Pastoriza, Minister of the Dominican Republic, Mr. Duggan, Mr. Chapin.

The Dominican Minister called by appointment to see Mr. Duggan in connection with his suggested additions to the draft protocol amending the 1924 Convention between the United States and the Dominican Republic.

In response to questioning Señor Pastoriza stated that his most recent suggestions were not to be taken by themselves as a protocol, but were to be incorporated with the previous suggestions for a protocol amending the Convention submitted by him and by Dr. Enríquez Ureña. Señor Pastoriza stated that the latest suggestions were purely unofficial and represented merely his own ideas since they had not been officially approved by his Government. Mr. Chapin pointed out that it was a little difficult to analyze the suggestions as they stood by themselves and that it would be preferable to see them physically incorporated with the other draft and to examine the modified draft as a whole. Señor Pastoriza stated he appreciated this and that this would be done subsequent to his return to the Dominican Republic. He added that he expected to leave at almost any time. Señor Pastoriza, in response to a question from Mr. Duggan, said that he was quite willing to insert another paragraph in his suggestions covering the rights and duties of the “Fiscal Representative” who was to replace the General Receiver of Customs. It was his idea that while the actual running of the customs would pass to the Dominican Government, the Fiscal Representative to be appointed by the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council would have the right to inspect at all times and to make known his recommendations to the Dominican Government. Señor Pastoriza was somewhat evasive as regards Mr. Duggan’s direct question whether the Dominican Government would consider itself bound to accept the suggestions and recommendations of the Fiscal Representative in the case of the report of irregularities of other similar defects in the administration of the customs.

Mr. Duggan then presented Señor Pastoriza with copies of our latest trade agreements with Costa Rica Signed November 28, 1936, Department of State Executive Agreement Series No. 102, or 50 Stat. 1582; see also Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , pp. 373 ff. and El Salvador. Signed February 19, 1937, Department of State Executive Agreement Series No. 101, or 50 Stat. 156; for previous correspondence, see ibid ., pp. 558 ff. He suggested that the Minister might care to look them over, paying particular attention to the general provisions. Señor Pastoriza promised that he would refer them to his Government upon his return to the Dominican Republic with a view to determining whether the general provisions were satisfactory in principle to the Government. Mr. Duggan explained to the Minister that we were prepared to go ahead with exploratory conversations on a trade agreement touching these general provisions but that pending the final outcome of the sugar legislation nothing could be done with respect to granting a concession to the Dominican Republic on sugar or sugar products.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

S[ elden ] C[ hapin ]


---
## [d470] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Norweb ) to the Secretary of State
839.51/4548: Telegram

Ciudad Trujillo , November 11, 1937 — noon . [Received 4:05 p.m.]

40. Your telegram No. 28, November 10, 6 p.m. Not printed. See my air mail despatch No. 60, November 9, Not printed. forwarded last night reporting Foreign Minister’s intention to reopen negotiations for revision of the 1924 convention on basis of preliminary consideration of the floating debt problem and respect for United States responsibility to bondholders. My reply to him was along the same lines as your press statement. An editorial in this morning’s Listin refers to the convention as an “anachronism” and asks if the United States should not evidence its interest in the cancellation of this arrangement. No reference was made to your statement, a summary of which was published here yesterday.

Although the Foreign Minister tells me he was appointed by the President with the sole purpose of negotiating a revision of the 1924 convention, I feel that the primary reason for drafting him to the Foreign Office was the threatening situation with Haiti. See pp. 132 ff. I also am of the opinion that this sudden cry for revision is an attempt to draw attention from the Dominican-Haitian dispute by evoking a fancied grievance against the United States.

Norweb



# CHAPTER [ch32] Postponement of negotiations respecting the termination of financial control in Haiti pending efforts by Haiti to obtain a refunding loan For previous correspondence regarding negotiations for termination of financial control, see Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , pp. 599 ff.

---
## [d530] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3284: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 4, 1937—noon . [Received 2:15 p.m.]

4. My despatch No. 426 of February 25 Not printed. and enclosures. Leger Georges Leger, Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs. stated this morning that last week President Vincent received a letter from Darnet Pierre Darnet, representative of a group of bankers. in New York stating that Schroder J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation of New York. is still actively interested in a loan of the nature outlined in the said enclosures and was this week sending a representative to Washington to ascertain the Department’s attitude toward such loan so that he (Darnet) hoped to Send Vincent something more definite on or before March 6.

Leger said that if such a refunding loan could be arranged there is no use going on with the protocol negotiations but that if this proposal again came to naught he intended to proceed actively with negotiations for the protocol and for the consummation of the Eberstadt Ferdinand Eberstadt, of F. Eberstadt & Company of New York. 5 million dollar public works loan.

If a Schroder representative is in fact in touch with the Department this week I trust that it may be found feasible to improve the opportunity to preclude the possibility referred to in the penultimate sentence of my despatch under reference. i. e., that funding loan proposals would open up the possibility of considerable further delay in negotiations for protocol regarding termination of financial control.

It is also to be noted that up to date Darnet has made no serious mention of contractual guarantees for the proposed loan. If in communication with the Schroder representative the Department can elicit anything concrete concerning such contractual guarantees I should appreciate being informed thereof either by cable or by open air mail.

Gordon


---
## [d531] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3284: Telegram

Washington , March 6, 1937—1 p.m.

5. Your 4, March 4, 12 noon. Bogdan Norbert A. Bogdan, Vice President of Schroder Banking Corporation. of Schroder and Company had an interview with Duggan Laurence Duggan, Chief of the Division of Latin American Affairs. on March 1 in which he stated that Schroder and Company were still interested in forming a banking group in which presumably substantial American interests would participate for floating a refunding and construction loan for Haiti. Bogdan stated Schroder’s interest was predicated on a substantial portion of this proposed loan being exchangeable for German marks in order to release frozen credits in Germany of American firms. These marks would be used in the purchase of equipment and supplies for construction and for the payment of the services of Swiss Brown Bouverie as public works contractors. Bogdan affirmed that Darnet produced several letters from Leger which made it clear inter alia that Haiti had no objection to a certain amount of blocked marks or to the use of German construction equipment and that for a refunding loan Haiti would sell or pledge the Bank and permit customs control by the bankers.

With reference to paragraph 3 of your telegram, while the Department agrees that it is regrettable that negotiations for a protocol should be further delayed, it does not feel that it would care to take any steps which might later give the Haitian Government any grounds for alleging that this Government intervened to prevent Haiti obtaining a refunding loan at this time.

A copy of the memorandum of the interview is being forwarded by open air mail today.


---
## [d532] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3287: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 12, 1937—2 p.m. [Received 4:15 p.m.]

5. Department’s telegram No. 5, March 6, 1 p.m., refers to alleged letters from Leger, making it clear that for a refunding loan Haiti would permit customs control by the bankers (see also my despatches Nos. 434 and 439 of March 8 and 9, respectively Neither printed. ).

I am now informed that in conversations this week between Leger and the fiscal representative, Sidney de la Rue. the former stated categorically that the Haitian Government would not grant such customs control. The fiscal representative pointed out that if Darnet is representing in New York that the Haitian Government will grant such customs control, and the Government is determined not to do so, a situation will eventually be precipitated where Haitian credit is likely to suffer. Leger agreed but insisted that on the present occasion Schroder could not have received any such false impression from Darnet as he (Leger) had been careful to tell Darnet specifically that the Haitian Government would not assign customs control.

It seems to me that it would clarify matters and help bring them to a head if the Department would authorize me to tell Leger that I have been informed that although the Haitian Government is not prepared to grant customs control for a refunding loan, in New York, Darnet is representing that the Haitian Government is prepared to do so; also, at the same time I think it would also be helpful to point out that Leger is in error in believing and stating that the Department has affirmatively stated that it has no objection to this new loan proposition and that it is friendly thereto.

The Department’s instructions will be appreciated.

Gordon


---
## [d533] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3286

No. 458 Washington , March 15, 1937 .

Sir : The Department refers to its instruction of March 6, 1937, transmitting a memorandum of a conversation Not printed. on March 1, 1937, between the Chief of the Latin American Division and Mr. Norbert A. Bogdan of the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation; to your despatch No. 434 of March 8, 1937, Not printed. concerning the activities of this company, and of Mr. Pierre Darnet; to your telegram No. 6 [ 5 ] of March 12, 2 p.m., and to your despatch No. 439 of March 9, 1937. Despatch not printed.

The Department has given careful consideration to the remarks made by Mr. Bogdan with respect to the proposed loan plan in which Schroder and Company is interested. In keeping with its present policy, the Department will not express any views regarding the loan project to Schroder and Company. It does desire, however, to lay certain observations before the Haitian Government and to urge their most careful consideration. Accordingly, unless you perceive objection to the observations set forth hereafter, you should request, at the first opportunity, an interview with President Vincent, or if you deem it preferable, with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and present to him orally the following views of this Government.

You may say that this Government is prompted to present certain considerations to the Haitian Government because of its truly sincere interest in the welfare of Haiti. It feels confident that the Haitian Government will receive these observations in the same spirit they are made, and will appreciate that they arise out of a desire that the Haitian Government be in possession of certain information and matured judgments before making any decision as to a loan. This Government, moreover, far from desiring to see any obstacles raised to the security of a refunding loan would welcome a loan that would terminate its financial responsibilities in Haiti.

I. After this preliminary statement, you may say that the Department understands that the sole interest of Schroder and Company in a loan to Haiti is to liberate all or part of blocked mark credits in Germany belonging to certain clients of Schroder and Company. Inasmuch as these blocked mark credits can be only employed for purchases in Germany, it is presumed that the Haitian Government would use them for the purchase of construction equipment and materials in Germany to be used in its public works projects, and, if possible, for the remuneration of the engineering and other services to be performed in connection with such projects by some European contracting firm such as Brown, Bouverie and Company.

It is the understanding of the Department, from various conversations which its representatives have held with representatives of the Haitian Government, that leaving aside for the moment the question of the refunding of the 1922 loans, Loan contract of October 6, 1922, between the Republic of Haiti and the National City Company and the National City Bank, both of New York; for text (in French and English), see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , October 30, 1922, pp. 533 and 537; see also Foreign Relations , 1922, vol. ii , pp. 472 ff. the desire of the Haitian Government in contracting at this time for a public works loan, has been twofold:

First, to undertake projects which will augment directly the economic prosperity of the country, such as the building of new roads and the improvement of existing roads and trails, the construction of drainage and irrigation ditches, of drying platforms for coffee, and of harbor facilities in the ports of secondary importance.

Second, to provide ample funds for absorbing Haitian labor in these economically sound public works projects, pending the increased general prosperity so confidently expected as a result of President Vincent’s wise encouragement and development of the coffee, banana and other industries, which would be directly benefited by the public works in question.

Public works projects of the type mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs require, as a general rule, a minimum of equipment and a maximum of labor. Aside from bridges, road construction equipment, tools, cement and other materials, and the services of a few foreign experts, the goods or services which need to be purchased outside of Haiti are limited. Unless the works to be undertaken are much vaster in scale than has so far been indicated, and unless the prices for the material to be imported are higher than those obtaining for such material throughout the world generally, it is consequently difficult to see how, from an economic point of view, any considerable quantity of blocked mark credits could be advantageously employed by Haiti. It is presumed that the Haitian Government is bearing this in mind.

II. It is well known that with the unfavorable exchange situation, and the imperative necessity for concentrating the best class of raw and finished materials and equipment to their own uses, some of the European Governments are exercising very severe control over the selection of commodities which are permitted to be exported against blocked exchange credits. In production, frequent resort is had necessarily to substitutes at the expense of quality in raw materials, and prices are apt to be substantially higher than those in countries whose currencies have international acceptance. Moreover, it is reported that certain countries are actually having difficulty in supplying non-armaments construction material. This uncertainty as to prompt deliveries of material, appears to increase in proportion to the emphasis that is being placed in these countries upon augmenting their own armaments.

III. It has been and is the policy of this Government to assist the Haitian Government and Haitian people in securing, at the earliest possible moment, complete control over the conduct of their own affairs. In keeping with this policy, the United States was happy to terminate, prior to the expiration of the treaty, its connections with Haitian affairs, with the exception of financial matters which were the subject of a special accord in 1933. Agreement of August 7, 1933, Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. v , p. 755 . A year later when President Vincent informed President Roosevelt of the widespread desire of the Haitian people for a modification of the accord, President Roosevelt indicated his entire willingness to negotiate a new accord See telegram No. 18, April 18, 1934, to the Minister in Haiti, ibid ., 1934, vol. v , p. 352 . by which the present United States financial control would be substituted by an arrangement for the retirement of official United States supervision over Haitian financial affairs. For this reason this Government cannot give credit to the representations alleged to have been made by Mr. Pierre Darnet to the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation on the basis of letters said to have been written by responsible Haitian officials to the effect that the Haitian Government would, in return for a refunding loan, consider offering the control of the recently acquired National Bank of Haiti and the collection of the Haitian national customs revenues to bankers with whom might be associated foreign bankers and through them foreign governments. In this connection, the Department recalls the frequently reiterated affirmations of various Haitians prominent in public and private life that once free, Haiti would never again submit to foreign control, fiscal or otherwise.

This Government was, accordingly, most heartened by the affirmation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Finance to the Fiscal Representative that the Haitian Government did not at this time contemplate the assignment of customs control.

IV. In conclusion, and as an earnest of its confidence that Haitian policy still is directed towards the complete recovery of its financial sovereignty, this Government desires to reiterate that it stands ready at any time to continue the negotiation of a protocol to terminate official United States financial control in Haiti under such suitable guarantees as may adequately protect the holders of the bonds of the 1922 Haitian loan. The Minister of the United States is prepared to carry forward the negotiations at the convenience of the Haitian Government.

There is enclosed herewith a copy of a memorandum of conversation, dated March 13, Not printed. between Mr. Bogdan of Schroder and Company, and Mr. Duggan.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d534] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3291: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 20, 1937—11 a.m. [Received 4:35 p.m.]

8. I have just presented orally to the Foreign Minister our Government’s views as set forth in the Department’s instruction No. 458 of March 15. In the ensuing conversation which lasted an hour the Foreign Minister made the following statements:

The Haitian Government has no intention of granting customs control in return for a refunding loan. If necessary, the Haitian Government would be prepared to set up something in the bank in the nature of an attenuated “bank plan” to guarantee the service of the loan; so far, however, nothing of the kind has been suggested and the Foreign Minister’s proposal to Schroder has only dealt with this point by stating that the bank would remain the exclusive agency for receiving Government moneys upon which there would be a first lien for the service of the loan.

The Foreign Minister has made the following proposal to the potential lenders: the Haitian Government to sell them a two-thirds interest in the bank for $1,000,000 in cash—all profits made by the bank to be distributed prior to the sale—the capital to be increased by $500,000, to be taken by the Haitian Government which would thus retain a one-third interest in the bank with proportionate representation on the Board of Directors; concessions under which the bank operates to be made conterminous with the life of the loan.

The Foreign Minister declared that he intended immediately to write Schroder to clear up the discrepancy arising from statements being made in the United States that the Haitian Government is willing to grant customs control.

The Haitian Government has no special interest in buying German construction material; if a reasonable refunding loan proposition were presented to the Haitian Government which included the purchase of American building material the Haitian Government would be better pleased. However, if the only feasible refunding loan proposition made to the Haitian Government comprises the purchase of German building material the Foreign Minister was willing to buy with blocked marks just as much of such material as he needed and no more; his position in this respect remains as he had stated it to the fiscal representative for communication to Schroder (see enclosure No. 2 to my despatch No. 426 of February 25 Not printed. ).

I spent some time stressing the considerations set forth in section II of the Department’s instruction under reference. The Foreign Minister said he understood these points and that he was prepared to take all necessary precautions. I told him that, speaking personally, I had had considerable opportunity to observe at first hand a [apparent omission] to unload blocked marks as well as to unfreeze exchange credits of other denominations and after pressing this point upon him in some detail he did seem to be somewhat impressed.

As regards the point of granting customs control to bankers with whom might be associated foreign bankers and through them foreign governments, the Foreign Minister said that he knew nothing of any foreign bankers being connected with the Schroder proposition. When I asked him about Brown Bouverie and reminded him that when the Debachy loan See Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 667 ff. was being peddled about this firm had been represented as having both a contracting and a financing interest, he said that as far as he knew they were only in it as contractors and he was unaware of their having any interest in the financing of the scheme; he had thought that through the London house of Schroder some English money might be participating in the loan but he knew nothing definite even as to this and was unaware of any other foreign money being involved. It was evident that the Foreign Minister felt that he had made considerable progress in the Schroder negotiations and was quite sanguine of the loan going through. One interesting piece of information was that White, Weld and Co. had recently sent a representative to see him. The Foreign Minister said he told this representative that he had authorized Schroder to proceed with the formulation of a loan proposition and the formation of an underwritings group and had suggested that White, Weld might desire to participate in the Schroder group. I take it that a permissible inference therefrom is that White, Weld had nothing more attractive to offer than Schroder. The Foreign Minister agreed that if in spite of his expectations the loan were to break down on the question of customs control it was better to know it at once than to proceed further under a misapprehension, and it was desirable to clear this up and bring the matter to a head as soon as possible; he also admitted that if the loan were to break down it was high time to proceed actively with the negotiations for a protocol terminating our financial control.

Gordon


---
## [d535] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3306

No. 470 Port-au-Prince , April 8, 1937 . [Received April 12.]

Sir : With reference to my despatch No. 4.64 of April 6, Not printed. reporting that President Vincent professed to believe that the Schroder negotiations were progressing well, I have the honor further to report that the Foreign Minister yesterday expressed the same view to the Fiscal Representative and said that he now had good reason to believe that the negotiations would lead to a satisfactory agreement, and from letters he had received he felt that this agreement would be reached prior to August 1; while he realized that the money from the loan would probably not be forthcoming until the autumn, he hoped in the loan contract to include a stipulation for an advance, at the time of signing the contract, sufficiently large to enable the Haitian Government to start on its public works program.

M. Léger said he accordingly felt that it would be futile for him to conduct conversations with the Fiscal Representative looking to the formulation of a satisfactory Bank Plan and the consequent signature of a protocol terminating our financial control.

Respectfully yours,

George A. Gordon


---
## [d536] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3321

No. 478 Washington , May 7, 1937 .

Sir : During the last week, the new Haitian Minister ElieLescot. has called a number of times at the Department for informal conversations with regard to the proposed loan by the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, and the suspended negotiations with this Government for the termination of official United States financial control in Haiti. The attached memoranda, Not printed. and other documents, fully summarize these conversations.

It will be noted that the Minister has stated his belief that the negotiations for conclusion of the protocol which will terminate United States financial control in Haiti should be resumed and expedited. Furthermore, in his undated memorandum which was communicated under cover of a personal letter to Mr. Welles of April 30, 1937, Neither printed. the Minister appears to advance only two main points of difference between the two Governments with respect to the proposed protocol, namely, (1) the amount to be allocated to the National Bank for carrying on the “Treasury” and other services to be entrusted to it upon the abolition of the office of the Fiscal Representative, and (2) the size of the personnel that is to form the so-called “Government Side” of the Bank.

It will also be noted that the Department with regard to the first point, has suggested for consideration a fixed annual amount of 800,000 gourdes, and with regard to the second, has pointed out that the plan as suggested by this Government envisages a curtailment of fifty percent in the number of Americans now in the service of the Fiscal Representative, who are to be transferred to the National Bank. The Haitian Minister expressed the belief that his Government would be satisfied with these two proposals and added that he would, on his part, urge the acceptance of this solution upon his Government.

At some appropriate time in the near future you are requested, unless you perceive objection to these most recent proposals, to inform the Minister of Foreign Relations that this Government not only stands ready, but desires to conclude the negotiations for the termination of United States financial control in Haiti, and that as a solution of the only two important points which it is understood, stand in the way of a final agreement, the Department is prepared to suggest for consideration the proposals above mentioned. You may add that the Department has arrived at these proposals only after mature consideration, animated as always by its desire to meet legitimate Haitian aspirations as far as may be consistent with the responsibilities which both Governments have assumed with respect to the holders of the bonds of the Haitian loans of 1922.

It seems scarcely necessary to say that the Department relies on your discretion not to embarrass the Haitian Minister here. M. Lescot has given every evidence of being extremely frank and helpful in his approach to the Department … M. Lescot, it may be added in conclusion, has admitted that his knowledge of the more intimate and detailed phases of the Schroder loan proposal and the protocol negotiations is somewhat limited, and the Department, therefore, is unable to judge how much of his belief that the Haitian Government would accept the two new proposals of this Government, is founded in fact on the position of the Haitian Government and how much is founded on his own desire to be cooperative.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d537] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3322: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , May 10, 1937—11 a.m. [Received 1:13 p.m.]

15. With reference to the Department’s instruction No. 478 of May 7, received this morning and more especially the last sentence thereof, I greatly fear that Lescot’s belief is principally founded on his own desire to be cooperative.

My despatch No. 470 of April 8 and previous communications to the Department show that Leger has consistently been unwilling to proceed with protocol negotiations as long as he thought he had any chance of getting a refunding loan. He now professes to think that this chance is better than ever and in view thereof he suggested to de la Rue (who arrives in New York today) that he take his vacation now rather than in August.

Amplifying despatch by tomorrow’s airmail.

Gordon


---
## [d538] Memorandum From the Haitian Legation Embodying the Principal Points of a Note From the Haitian Legation to the Haitian Government, May 8, 1937 Handed to the Assistant Secretary of State, May 17, 1937.
838.51/3383

May 8, 1937

[Translation]

1. The American Government agrees to reduce the number of the present functionaries of the Fiscal Agency to seven, thus reducing the number, which is now fourteen, by one-half; 2. No percentage will be considered for assuring the functioning of the new service to be established. As there is a discussion at the present time between a minimum of 600,000 Gourdes and a maximum of 1,000,000 to assure the functioning of the said service, the American Government proposes to the Haitian Government to increase the amount of the allocation to 800,000 Gourdes. The American Government in spite of all its good will, considers that the service cannot be carried on with a smaller allocation. 3. The amount of the service on the loan and that of the salaries of the functionaries carrying on such service, being deducted from the receipts of the Republic, the balance will remain at the free disposal of the Haitian Government without having to obtain any previous agreement of any functionary of the new service to be created.


---
## [d539] Memorandum From the Haitian Legation Embodying the Text of a Note From the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Haitian Legation in the United States, May 12, 1937
838.51/3384

May 12, 1937

[Translation]

1. The Government is disposed to accept any reasonable plan and give every guarantee to the holders of the loan of 1922. It deems that the projects it had submitted granted ample protection to the said holders and it is disposed to study any method which might give the American Government the satisfaction that it might consider necessary. 2. The Haitian Government does not believe that it would be good policy to agree to transfer, as the American Government desires, the Office of the Fiscal Representative to the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. In the first place such a transfer would disorganize in part the Haitian Financial Administration and would oblige the Government, after the eventual repayment of the 1922 loan, to undertake a new reorganization of the said services. Moreover, Haitian public opinion, which has always understood that the Haitian Government had made the purchase of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti for the purpose of terminating the control of the Office of the Fiscal Representative, would not understand why the operation simply resulted in transferring the said Office as it is now organized and with almost the same powers to the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti.

The Haitian Government is of the opinion that the Office of the Fiscal Representative should be Haitianized and should be kept as a permanent part of the Haitian financial organization. It thinks that, furthermore, in order to give satisfaction to the American Government and the holders of 1922, an additional Service of Control should be organized in the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti, which Service would be scheduled for elimination as soon as the 1922 loan was repaid.

Such is the fundamental opinion of the Haitian Government, which opinion has been set forth and developed at length.


---
## [d540] The Assistant Secretary of State ( Welles ) to the Haitian Minister ( Lescot )
838.51/3326a

Washington , May 18, 1937 .

My Dear Mr. Minister : On the occasion of your visit yesterday you were good enough to leave with me a memorandum of the principal points of your note of May 8 to your Government which represent faithfully the concessions which my Govermnent is prepared to make in order to facilitate and expedite an agreement to liquidate United States financial control in Haiti.

With regard to your other memorandum containing the points of view of Mr. Leger as set forth in his note to you of May 12, 1937, I have given it my personal attention and submit for your and his further consideration an informal memorandum in reply.

With warm personal regards, believe me,

Yours sincerely,

Sumner Welles

[Enclosure] The Department of State to the Haitian Legation Memorandum 1. The Government of the United States on its part is disposed to consider favorably any reasonable plan for the liquidation of United States financial control in Haiti, whether upon the basis of the transfer to the National Bank of Haiti of the services now performed by the Office of the Fiscal Representative or upon any other acceptable basis. This Government believes, however, that the plan which it has proposed to the Haitian Government on November 18, 1936, See despatch No. 346, November 18, 1936, from the Minister in Haiti, Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 621 . as modified by the note and documents delivered on December 23, 1936, See enclosures to despatch No. 438, December 16, 1936, to the Minister in Haiti, ibid ., p. 646 . is the only one which has so far been advanced that satisfactorily safeguards the rights of the bondholders of the 1922 loan and thus permits this Government to agree to the termination of the present system of financial control in Haiti. 2. The Government of the United States does not share the opinion of the Haitian Government that the proposed transfer to the National Bank of Haiti of the services now performed by the Fiscal Representative would partially disorganize the financial administration of Haiti. This Government desires to point out that the duties of the proposed “Service of Control of Receipts and Expenditures of the Republic” as outlined in the documents accompanying Mr. Leger’s note of November 26, 1936, ibid ., p. 627 . would appear in part to be already carried out at present by the Haitian Ministry of Finance while other duties parallel those which admittedly must be performed by the proposed Government side of the National Bank even according to Mr. Leger’s plan, and thus constitute triplication of effort in some instances. This Government would be greatly pleased to see the present organization of the Ministry of Finance, or of whatever office the Haitian Government may designate, gradually trained and developed to the point when, upon the retirement of the 1922 loans, it should be a simple process to amalgamate the remaining personnel of the Government side of the Bank with that of the Haitian financial administration and form one sole financial service. Washington , May 18, 1937 .


---
## [d541] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3348

No. 499 Port-au-Prince , June 2, 1937 . [Received June 4.]

Sir : With reference to my despatch No. 404 of February 5, 1937, Not printed. and other communications regarding the termination of our financial control in Haiti, I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of a note received this morning from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Post , p. 540 . As he only transmitted this one copy and I am anxious to get it off today before I leave, I am enclosing it without waiting to have further copies made. A translation of the note will be forwarded by the next air mail.

I have made a few pencil notations on this copy of points in the note which seem to me especially defective, which I trust will be self-explanatory. It will be noted that Leger has not attempted to formulate counter-proposals to the proposals which I submitted to him on December 23, as he has frequently indicated that he would do. As the Department will observe the note closes by saying that if the American Government has any modifications to propose to the original Haitian proposals of last November the Haitian Government will be glad to examine them, quite regardless of the fact that this is just what we did—six months ago.

In conversation with Léger I pointed out to him that this note does not advance matters; it merely reiterates objections to our position which he and I had gone over time and again and which I have reported to the Department, and gets us nowhere. I said that as I had submitted to him a detailed and carefully worked out plan of organization, the logical procedure was for him in his turn to work out a plan of organization differing from ours in the respects which he did not find acceptable, and that the most practical way to set about this—as he had already expressedly realized—was to get down to the discussion of specific details with the Fiscal Representative.

Léger then said that this was true and that on reflection he thought that this was just what he would do in the near future.

I shall be glad to report more fully orally, when I reach the Department next week, this conversation with Léger.

Respectfully yours,

George A. Gordon


---
## [d542] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3351

No. 500 Port-au-Prince , June 2, 1937 . [Received June 8.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the Legation’s despatch No. 499 dated today and to enclose for the Department’s consideration additional copies and a translation of the Haitian Government’s note dated May 31, 1937, with regard to the conclusion of a protocol for the termination of American financial control in Haiti.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley

[Enclosure—Translation] The Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Leger ) to the American Minister ( Gordon ) Port-au-Prince , May 31, 1937 . Mr. Minister : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication dated December 21, 1936, as well as of the memorandum and the six aide-mémoires These documents together with the Minister’s communication were delivered on December 23, 1930; see telegram No. 67, December 23, 1936, 1 p.m., from the Minister in Haiti, Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 667 . The documents were communicated to the Minister with the Department’s instruction No. 438 of December 16, 1936, ibid ., p. 646 . which accompanied your despatch. You have been good enough to note the agreement which exists between your Government and the Haitian Government with regard to the text of the proposed protocol transmitted by Your Excellency the 18th of November, 1936, and to express the sentiment that the several points with regard to the proposed note which would form part of the protocol, and concerning which disagreement persists, do not seem to you to be important points nor to raise difficulties of a kind to prevent the conclusion of a final agreement. In this connection, you have gone on to show that when the question of the purchase of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti by the Haitian Government and that of the termination of financial control in Haiti were raised in 1934, See ibid ., 1934, vol. v , pp. 339 ff. the tacit or actual intention expressed by the two Governments, as this is understood by the American Government, was that the essential services of the office of the Fiscal Representative should be transferred to the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. Your Excellency adds that although there have been changes in the personnel of those who were the negotiators in 1934, its common intention has remained unchanged and consequently your Government believes it necessary to record in writing certain obligations of the Haitian Government which, according to Your Excellency, although they were assumed verbally are nevertheless in existence. It is scarcely necessary to say that the Haitian Government does not intend to escape from any obligations it has taken, but, since Your Excellency has wished to recall from the beginning of your communication of December 21, 1936, the circumstances which surrounded the negotiations of 1934, and the conditions which, according to what your Government understands, were determined upon with a view to the purchase of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and of the termination of American financial control, I take the liberty of setting forth the viewpoint of the Haitian Government in this regard. The purchase of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti was effected by the Haitian Government at the price of a very great sacrifice considering the financial resources of the Republic. The goal which the Haitian Government aimed at in making this purchase was that it might be enabled to put an end to the financial control of the American Government in Haiti. The Haitian Government indeed consented to accord reasonable guarantees to the holders of the loan of 1922, but it never entered its mind to substitute purely and simply the control of these bondholders for that of the American Government. The conversations which took place between the representatives of the two Governments with regard to the extent of the new control to be organized in favor of the bondholders in the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti, ended with the drawing up of a draft letter and of a memorandum, the text of which was satisfactory to the two high contracting parties. The signature of these drafts has been deferred only by reason of the fact that delays occurred in concluding and putting into force the final contract of purchase of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. See Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 703 ff. The Haitian Government believes and supports the contention that this proposed letter and proposed memorandum of 1934 are the final results of the conversations of 1934. Your Excellency, moreover, in the aide-mémoire which you kindly communicated to me November 18, 1936, recognized explicitly that the American Government for the past two years has at all times been disposed to sign these agreements only with the modifications which would bring them up to date. The Haitian Government believes that there should be no question now of modifying these drafts in the sense of an aggravation of the conditions of control granted to the bondholders. From May 1934 to date the debt of the Republic of Haiti has considerably diminished, the Series B bonds of the loan have been entirely paid off, thus relieving the budget of the Republic of quite a heavy annual charge and rendering more certain the situation of the creditors of the State; it seems therefore that in all logic, if changes have to be made in the documents of 1934, these should be rather in the sense of a relief from the proposed control. Now it is indisputable that the new texts proposed by Your Excellency constitute an aggravation and an extension of the rights of control, already very large, which the Haitian Government has accepted to give the bondholders, and which had been agreed to by your Government. Notably the obligation which your Government desires to impose on the Haitian Government of obtaining the previous agreement of the Bank as to the availability of funds before opening supplementary or extraordinary credits is a new addition to the draft agreement of 1934 and an aggravation of that agreement. Since the Haitian Government undertakes not to open credits unless funds are available, it is certain that it will take care to assure itself, before opening any credits, that funds are available, but it does not intend to find itself under the obligation of having to obtain the agreement of the Director of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti in such circumstances. Such an obligation, if it were accepted by the Government, would perpetuate practically the same situation created by the Agreement of August 7, 1933. I permit myself once more to remark that the texts of 1934 in no wise imperil the interests of the bondholders for, if the Government should forget itself by taking credits when no funds existed, the Bank could always refuse to issue the checks. Your Excellency has kindly expressed the satisfaction of the American Government with the Haitian Government in the counter-project which it has submitted retaining what Your Excellency denominates the essential phrase of Article 10 as follows: “It (the Bank) would also have the duty of informing the Secretary of State for Finance of any error which might creep into an order sent to it for payment or in the documents of justification which accompany this order.” Your Excellency thinks that the Ministry of Foreign Relations will agree that such a stipulation calls for the installation in the National Bank of a “Service of Prior Examination ( Controle ) of Government Payments”, of a “Service of Public Accounting”, as well as of a “Service of Issuance of Checks”, all of these things which are stipulated in the first phrase of Article 10 of the project proposed by your Government. I regret that I am not able to give the agreement of my Government in this matter. The Haitian Government does not believe that in order to enable the Bank to point out “any error which might creep into an order for payment”, it ought to be necessary to transfer to the said Bank the complete financial organization of the Republic of Haiti. Most of the work, in the opinion of the Haitian Government, should be performed by the permanent cogs of the machine of the public finance organization in the Republic of Haiti, such as these cogs are at present organized, which cogs should be retained in the Service of Receipts and Disbursements of the Republic to be created in accordance with the plan which I have had the honor to submit to Your Excellency. The control which the Bank is called upon to make in the interest of the bondholders, would be in this case only one of ultimate control as to the regularity of the documents and would demand only a limited personnel, this personnel in accordance with the Haitian Government’s project would always have the right of access to and of inquiry in the permanent Services created by the Haitian Government. Here again I permit myself to insist on the fact that the Haitian Government proposes to rest upon the text which was agreed upon in 1934, and that it does not seek consequently in any way to modify the conditions mutually agreed upon between the parties for the termination of financial control by the American Government in Haiti. The Haitian Government willingly gives its consent to the desire of the American Government to see the laws voted by the Haitian legislative chambers which would complete the protocol and the proposed note. The Haitian Government notes with regret that your Government considers that the three proposals submitted to it are based on concepts which the American Government considers different from those which had been envisaged in 1934 and which are those on which the agreement of the American Government for the termination of American financial control had been based. I must not fail to remark, however, that these drafts which I have had the honor to submit to you are the only ones which permit the strict application of the texts of the agreement of 1934 as well as the 2% recognized as due the Bank by the Contract of July 1935. It is evident that the two Governments were not parties to the Contract of Sale of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti signed July 8, 1935, but it remains true nevertheless that the conditions of this Contract were determined upon with the approbation and under the good offices of the American Government. The Haitian Government was therefore right to think that the precise stipulations in Article 13 of the Contract of July, 1935, could be considered as definite and all the more so since these same stipulations were reproduced in the drafts of 1934 decided upon between the Governments. Nevertheless the memorandum which Your Excellency has kindly submitted and which the Haitian Government has studied with greatest interest—a memorandum which shows, as your Government conceives it, the nature and extent of the control to be granted the Bank—implies necessarily the modification of the conditions agreed upon in 1934 and which appears in the Contract of Sale of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The 2% which had been foreseen as the Bank’s commission is very evidently insufficient to take care of a budget which would necessitate an organization of the sort proposed by Your Excellency, and if such a plan were to be adopted it would be necessary either to increase the 2% directly or, as Your Excellency suggests, indirectly, by giving the Bank a guaranteed minimum commission which would greatly exceed the probable yield of a 2% commission. The Haitian Government does not deny the friendly spirit with which the American Government has treated the different problems arising out of the liquidation of the Treaty of 1915. Foreign Relations , 1916, p. 328 . It hopes the American Government on its side will realize the sincere desire which the Haitian Government manifests to give all possible appeasement to the bondholders of the loan of 1922. The Haitian Government believes that it is possible to guarantee entirely the rights of these bondholders by holding to the terms of the conditions agreed upon in 1934 and which have been accepted by the American Government. The proposals which it has formulated and which I have had the honor to submit to Your Excellency have as a basis these proposed agreements of 1934. The Haitian Government, if the American Government has modifications to propose to these projects, will be happy to examine them in the highest spirit of conciliation and it remains persuaded that a common examination of these projects will achieve a solution giving full satisfaction to both Governments. Accept [etc.] Georges N. Leger


---
## [d543] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3348

No. 492 Washington , June 17, 1937 .

Sir : The Department refers to Mr. Gordon’s despatch No. 499 of June 2, transmitting a copy of a note from the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs dated May 31, 1937, which purported to answer the Legation’s note and accompanying documents of December 21, 1936.

You are requested to call on the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs at your early convenience and to make certain observations which are set forth below in reply to the note of May 31, 1937, leaving an aide-mémoire of your remarks.

You may say that the Government of the United States has examined attentively the Minister’s note of May 31, 1937, but regrets to say that in its opinion the statements of the Minister appear to indicate that the points of view of the two governments seem to be no closer together than was the case some months ago.

The Government of the United States does not feel that to attempt to reply point by point to the arguments raised by the Minister would be profitable to either government, although it cannot let pass unanswered the statement contained in the seventh paragraph of the Minister’s note. The Government of the United States feels sure that upon mature reflection, the Minister will agree that the assertion of the Haitian Government that the new texts proposed by the Government of the United States “constitute an aggravation and an extension of the already large rights of control which the Haitian Government had agreed to give to the bondholders and which were agreed to by your Government” is far from “indisputable ( indiscutable ).”

The Government of the United States is convinced for its part that it should be possible without serious difficulty to elaborate a plan satisfactory to both governments for the termination of United States financial control in Haiti, based upon the documents which it has already submitted to the Haitian Government. More specifically, the Government of the United States desires to advance the earnest suggestion that upon Mr. de la Sue’s return to Haiti in the immediate future his services be availed of by the Haitian Government to elaborate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Finance a plan for the organization of the fiscal or Government side of the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The Government of the United States recalls in this connection that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Finance has himself several times advanced the opinion that such a course was the most logical one to follow, and Mr. de la Rue has on his part expressed his readiness to cooperate with Mr. Léger in every way possible to develop such a plan step by step, in the hope of reaching a solution satisfactory to both governments and adequately safeguarding the rights of the bondholders of the 1922 loans.

Very truly yours,

For the Secretary of State: Sumner Welles


---
## [d544] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3363: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , June 22, 1937—noon . [Received 4:05 p.m.]

31. Department’s air mail instruction June 17. The Department’s observations with respect to the Haitian Government’s note of May 31, 1937 were communicated to Leger this morning. He said that he was pleased that discussion of the details of the organization of the Government side of the bank could now proceed between de la Rue and himself. He thought something could be worked out. The points of view of the two Governments were not far apart and he stated very plainly that he does not consider the question of the cost of the organization as important as that of its kind. What he really wanted was physically to retain the services now performed by the fiscal representative’s office in the Ministry of Finance where he thought they belonged. These services he believed could be Haitianized just as in the case of the Garde by duplicating personnel during the training period. He wished to see installed in the bank only such control officers as would protect the interests of the bondholders. Discussions with de la Rue would begin as soon as the latter returned unless of course there was some new prospect of a refunding loan in which case they would not be necessary.

Proceeding then to the question of acquisition of the possible loan he told me of Bogdan’s prospective arrival today and repeated that the Haitian Government was under no obligation to Schroder but would of course examine any plan that Bogdan had to offer. He said he was not interested in German marks and he also made a point of saying that, following Bogdan’s visit to France this summer, he thought the latter might propose some sort of scheme which would link up a loan with the question of the 1910 bonds. This, he said, he would not tolerate. The two were entirely separate propositions. He would keep me informed as to any developments which might take place.

Coming next to the French commercial convention he said that he personally through a third party and not on behalf of the Haitian Government had told the French that he might be willing to adjust the 1910 loan question on the basis of the payment of francs 10 million over a 15-year period. See pp. 560 ff. I understood him to say that he would not go beyond that figure. The French were apparently holding up the convention because they did not think this adequate. He was very anxious on the other hand to conclude the convention because there were good prospects for a large coffee crop and because they would need the French market this year. In reply to my question he again said that while the conclusion of the convention was not explicitly bound up with the 1910 loan settlement, he naturally would feel a moral obligation in case the convention were signed to settle the 1910 question.

Finley


---
## [d545] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3368: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 6, 1937—11 a.m. [Received 3 p.m.]

39. Following interviews he had yesterday with Vincent and Leger, De la Rue informed me that the object of his conversations had been to communicate to them Eberstadt’s new proposal for a $15,000,000 refunding and public works loan. The proposal was, he stated, that $2,500,000 should be made available as soon as the loan could be prepared and approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission; another $2,500,000 to be made available as soon as possible but within 90 days and the balance to be taken “after October 1, 1937”. The price at which the bonds would be taken would be subject to discussion but Eberstadt would be given the right to handle the refunding operation. The latter would come to Haiti in the near future after he had been invited by the Haitian Government and after receiving assurances from the Haitian Government that it is not already pledged to do business with another firm.

De la Rue further stated that both Vincent and Leger have expressed a desire to have Eberstadt come to Haiti at the earliest possible date. Meanwhile, the conversations with regard to the protocol which were agreed upon in the Department on June 14 will, De la Rue states, be postponed.

I am forwarding by next air mail the text of De la Rue’s letter to Leger on this subject.

Since this is an entirely new démarche concerning which the Legation has only the above information, will the Department kindly cable me its views.

Finley


---
## [d546] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3368: Telegram

Washington , July 8, 1937—5 p.m.

24. Your 39, July 6, 11 a.m.

De la Rue communicated Eberstadt’s proposal to Duggan prior to sailing from New York.

The Government of the United States, which until a refunding of the 1922 loan is effected has certain financial obligations vis-à-vis the Haitian Government would appreciate being furnished, when available, with the complete details of this latest proposal. While the United States would as a friend feel constrained to lay certain observations before the Haitian Government if it believed the terms of the proposal unduly onerous, the ultimate decision as to acceptance or rejection is, of course, one which must be taken by the Haitian Government.

As the Haitian Government has been previously informed, this Government would, of course, be delighted if Haiti could obtain at this time a refunding loan on reasonable terms from responsible bankers which would retire the 1922 bonds and thus automatically abrogate the Protocol of 1919 Signed October 3, 1919, Foreign Relations , 1919, vol. ii , p. 347 . and other existing financial agreements between the United States and Haiti. It cannot be overemphasized, however, that this Government is opposed to any proposal which either in fact or by implication might be construed as extending or prolonging the present responsibility of the United States as respects financial control or supervision in Haiti.

You are authorized in your discretion to bring the substance of the foregoing considerations to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You should on that occasion inform him that while the Government is naturally anxious to proceed with the protocol at the earliest possible moment it is agreeable to a postponement of the conversations between Leger and de la Rue for the formulation of a concrete bank plan if such a postponement is desired by the Haitian Government.

Hull


---
## [d547] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3375: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 10, 1937—noon . [Received 2:25 p.m.]

42. Department’s 24, July 8, 5 p.m. The Department’s views were communicated to Leger this morning. He said he had understood these views to be as I had indicated and that his Government and mine appeared to be in perfect agreement on this subject.

Regarding his conversations with De la Rue concerning the formulation of a bank plan, he said that in case nothing came of the Eberstadt proposal, he would immediately resume these conversations for he was genuinely anxious to reach an agreement regarding the termination of financial control.

Finley


---
## [d548] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3382: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 17, 1937—10 a.m. [Received 1:05 p.m.]

46. Legation’s despatch 515 of July 7, and telegram 41, July 9, noon. Neither printed. Eberstadt has since telegraphed De la Rue that he thought it would take him until about September 1, to push his preparatory work to the point where he could come down here with a fairly definite proposition. Leger feels that it is undesirable to wait that long before even beginning negotiations and accordingly he has sent another message to Eberstadt asking him to come down in the near future even if his proposition has not yet taken definite shape, emphasizing that it seems preferable that there should be discussion of the nature of the security contemplated for the proposed bond issue before Eberstadt’s plans are further advanced.

Gordon


---
## [d549] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3400: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 30, 1937—11 a.m. [Received 12:55 p.m.]

52. Legation’s 46, July 17, 1 p.m. [ 10 a.m. ]. Eberstadt has now informed Leger that the flotation by him and his associates of a refunding and public works loan for Haiti would involve in all probability the nomination of a board of directors of the bank consisting of five members, two of whom would be nominated by the Haitian Government, two by the trustees of the loan and one “by a mutually acceptable agency of the United States Government”. De la Rue understands that Eberstadt has the Federal Reserve Bank in mind as this mutually acceptable agency. Government collections and disbursements would of course be made through the bank.

Eberstadt told Leger that the attitude of his prospective associates is lukewarm and that he does not look for much success unless the guarantees can be substantially as stated above. He also stated that he did not see how he would be able to come to Haiti before early September.

Having in mind the Department’s 24 of July 8, 5 p.m., the Legation would be glad to be informed how the Department would regard the nomination of a director of the bank by the Federal Reserve Bank or other American Government agency.

Finley


---
## [d550] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3400: Telegram

Washington , August 2, 1937—4 p.m.

33. Your 52, July 30, 11 a.m. On July 28, in a conversation with the Chief of the Division of the American Republics, Eberstadt made essentially the same statements regarding the conditions under which he and his associates would undertake the flotation of a public works loan for Haiti which your telegram under reference reports he made to Leger.

Mr. Eberstadt was informed that it would be entirely contrary to the policy of this Government to have anything whatsoever to do with the appointment of the fifth member of the Board of Directors of the Bank or in any way assume any responsibilities in connection with the new loan.

If inquiry is made by the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs as to the attitude of this Government with regard to the Eberstadt proposal, you may make the same statement to him.

In concluding his conversation, Mr. Eberstadt said that there might be some other formula which could be worked out which would protect to the same degree the interests of the bondholders and that if such a formula were suggested he, of course, would be only too glad to accept. He stated, however, that he did not wish to recommend to his clients any loan that he himself did not feel was adequately safeguarded and he expressed great doubt as to the possibility of finding any other arrangement which would afford the same degree of protection as that which now exists under the 1922 loan.

Hull


---
## [d551] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3408: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 4, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 3:30 p.m.]

56. Department’s instruction 507, August 2. Not printed; it transmitted a copy of a memorandum of conversation between the Chief of the Division of the American Republics and Mr. Eberstadt, reported in telegram No. 33, August 2, 4 p.m., supra (838.51/3407). I am quite certain that Leger, when he replied to Eberstadt was entirely unaware that the latter proposes to have powers conferred on the fifth member of the bank board substantially identical with those now exercised by the fiscal representative. I am equally certain that he entertained no idea that the American Government would be willing to nominate the fifth member. What he probably had in mind was that the Federal Reserve Bank might, as I understand it recently did in Brazil, name a panel of experts from which the choice could be made or failing that that the Foreign Bondholders Association might do so.

It appears to me that the positions of the two parties to this affair are much farther apart than either realizes. De la Rue is hopeful that Eberstadt’s next letter to Leger will make his position clearer and that meanwhile Lancaster and Dulles will have given him a clearer picture of Leger’s position. He has written Lancaster.

Finley


---
## [d552] The Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan ) to the Haitian Minister ( Lescot )
838.51/3429b

Washington , August 7, 1937 .

My Dear Mr. Minister : In accordance with your request for a brief statement of the policy and attitude of this Government with respect to the matters which we have recently been discussing, I take pleasure in sending you herewith a brief memorandum which I hope is adequate for your purposes.

I am hopeful that prior to your departure from Washington further information will have been received from our Embassy in Paris with regard to the 1910 Haitian franc loan. If such information is received I shall, of course, communicate with you at once.

I am, my dear Mr. Lescot,

Very sincerely yours,

Laurence Duggan

[Enclosure] The Department of State to the Haitian Legation I. Proposed Protocol Abrogating the Protocol of October 3, 1919, and the Accord of August 7, 1933 . The Government of the United States, in harmony with its consistent policy of clearing up as rapidly as may be possible the vestiges of its special relationships with certain countries of the Caribbean area, is desirous of concluding a protocol with the Haitian Government which will liquidate official American financial control in Haiti, and will abrogate the Protocol of October 3, 1919, and the Accord of August 7, 1933. Although equally desirous of recognizing as far as may be possible legitimate Haitian aspirations to obtain complete autonomous control over the collection and allocation of the revenues of the Republic, the Government of the United States, mindful of the responsibilities which it together with the Government of Haiti has assumed towards the holders of the bonds of the 1922 loan, feels that it would not be warranted in agreeing to a protocol whose terms did not provide adequate guarantees for the bondholders. Accordingly, the Government of the United States believes that a protocol with accompanying letter along the broad lines of that submitted to the Haitian Government on November 18, 1936, as amplified by a memorandum of the proposed organization of the National Bank of Haiti, submitted to the Haitian Government on December 23, 1936, represents approximately the minimum guarantees which would adequately safeguard the rights of the bondholders of the 1922 loan. It should be understood, however, that while the Government of the United States holds to the broad basis of the plan which had already been agreed upon between the two governments in 1934, it has no desire to insist rigidly upon the details of this plan. II. Proposed Refunding or Construction Loan to Haiti. The Government of the United States would be greatly pleased to see, as a most happy solution of the existing special relationship, a refunding loan to Haiti underwritten by a group of responsible bankers either in this country or elsewhere. While the terms of such a loan can be of no direct concern to this Government, which in any case must stand aloof, the United States would naturally be disappointed, as a sincere friend of Haiti and of the Haitian people, if such terms were unduly onerous or disadvantageous as respects Haiti or if they imply any possibility of future impairment of Haiti’s sovereignty. Accordingly, the Government of the United States feels that the decision whether the Haitian Government prefers to contract a smaller loan in the absence of a refunding loan and the terms upon which any loan might be obtained, are matters purely of concern to the Haitian Government. As has been made clear on various occasions to the Haitian Government, the Government of the United States is unalterably opposed to any new arrangement which might extend or be construed as extending the present American financial control in Haiti. Therefore, the Government of the United States is unable, either directly or indirectly through one of the semi-autonomous organizations under control of this Government, to nominate any official who might serve in any capacity in connection with a future loan to Haiti. III. The 1910 Haitian Franc Loan. The Government of the United States was pleased, at the instance of the Government of Haiti, to exercise again its good offices with respect to the French Government in connection with the demand by a certain group of French bondholders for an additional settlement beyond that offered in 1922–23 to the holders of the 1910 Haitian franc loan. The Government of the United States has consistently endorsed the point of view set forth by the Haitian Government, that full and equitable settlement was tendered to the holders of the 1910 loan in 1922–23.


---
## [d553] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3408: Telegram

Washington , August 9, 1937—4 p.m.

35. Your 56, August 4, 1 p.m. The recent consultation of the Brazilian Minister of Finance with the Secretary of the Treasury in which the latter agreed to supply such technical assistance as Brazil may care to avail itself of in connection with the organization of a new Brazilian central reserve bank offers no precedent for the proposal that the Federal Reserve Bank recommend the appointment or in any way participate in the selection of an American to serve on an agency which will exercise control over Haitian finances in the interests of holders of external bonds of the Haitian Government.

Hull


---
## [d554] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3418: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 10, 1937—11 a.m. [Received 12:02 p.m.]

63. My telegram No. 62, August 9, 1 p.m. Not printed. De la Rue at Leger’s request is again writing to Eberstadt in an endeavor to elucidate the viewpoint of the Haitian Government and to find out whether he is prepared to proceed on any other basis than that which he seems most unwittingly to have envisaged. Pending receipt of his reply Leger told De la Rue that he would prefer not to proceed with protocol negotiations.

Finley


---
## [d555] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3483: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , November 16, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 3:44 p.m.]

115. Personal for the Under Secretary of State from Mayer. Ferdinand L. Mayer, Appointed Minister to Haiti.

In a conversation Pixley Rex A. Pixley, Deputy Fiscal Representative. had this morning with Leger the latter discussed in strict confidence the question of a French loan through Barclay’s Bank. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave Pixley the definite impression that he was momentarily expecting word from France that the situation there had reached such a point that he would be given full powers from the President of Haiti and would immediately return to the United States by air en route to France to sign the documents. The Minister for Foreign Affairs added that the only obstacle to the loan was fear in France of hostilities between Haiti and Santo Domingo. See pp. 132 ff.

At the same time Leger told Pixley that he had informed you in detail of this matter and that the Department approved.

As I am presenting my credentials on Thursday November 18. and this French loan may be broached to me in conversation then or thereafter it would seem desirable for us to have your point of view with regard to this matter. [Mayer.]

Finley


---
## [d556] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3483: Telegram

Washington , November 17, 1937—4 p.m.

59. Your 115, November 16, 1 p.m. Solely for your background information, the Department transmits to you the text of two telegrams received from the Embassy in Paris sent in reply to an instruction to obtain such information as might be possible with regard to the reported French negotiations for a loan to Haiti. The telegrams are as follows:

(Here quote 1602, November 13, 6 p.m., and 1617, November 17, 2 p.m., from Paris). Telegrams not printed. Ambassador Bullitt reported inquiries at the French Treasury, Foreign Office, and Bank of France which indicated that neither the Government nor the Bank had been approached by the firm of Lajoinie in regard to the Haitian project. (838.51/3482, 3484)

The contents of these telegrams have been made available to de la Rue who presumably will inform Pixley.

When Leger informed me of the pending negotiations with French interests, I stated to him that the matter was one, of course, solely for determination by the Haitian Government; that I assumed, of course, that the Haitian Government would enter into no loan contract which could in any sense be construed as counter to the prior interests of United States bondholders, nor which would in any way involve political influence in Haiti on the part of European interests, nor which in a general sense would be prejudicial to the best interests of the Haitian people. I added that I knew of the repeated efforts made by the Haitian Government to obtain financial accommodation in the United States and that in view of the failure up to date of these efforts, I recognized the legitimate desire of the Government of Haiti to turn to other sources for such accommodation. I concluded by saying that I trusted that any negotiations which might be consummated would be satisfactory to the Haitian Government and to the best interests of the Haitian people.

Hull


---
## [d557] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/8483: Telegram

Washington , November 20, 1937—1 p.m.

61. Reference Department’s 59, November 17, 4 p.m. De la Rue, who arrived here last night, states he has not communicated contents of Paris telegrams transmitted to you in Department’s 59. You are authorized to show them to Pixley.

Hull


---
## [d558] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Mayer )
838.51/3483: Telegram

Washington , November 22, 1937—5 p.m.

62. De la Rue informs me that the financial situation in Haiti is becoming alarming and has been further aggravated by the recent drop in coffee prices which threatens to curtail almost entirely the exportation of coffee unless the price to the peasant cultivator can be increased.

He has been informed by Leger that the latter is not in favor of the proposed temporary reduction of 33 per cent in the coffee export duty since he is reluctant to change tax structure in view of negotiations for French loan which he believes should be brought to successful conclusion within 20 days. De la Rue feels that internal economic conditions can not continue without some stimulation of coffee trade for that long a period and that meanwhile Haiti’s place in the American coffee market so laboriously gained may be endangered.

At his request and since I understand that Léger intends to defer for 2 weeks or more making inquiries through New York with respect to Lajoinie and his associates, I now authorize you to communicate orally and strictly confidentially to Léger the substance of the two telegrams from the Embassy in Paris contained in Department’s 59, November 17, 4 p.m.

Please cable promptly such reaction as you may obtain from Leger.

Hull


---
## [d559] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3485: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , November 22, 1937—3 p.m. [Received 6:29 p.m.]

121. During conversation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs this morning I inquired regarding the progress of his loan negotiations. (Department’s 59, November 17, 4 p.m.)

Leger said that he had explained the matter to the Department as fully as he knew at the time. He was glad, however, to give me the following further information which he had written to De la Rue and assumed had been communicated by the latter to you.

This new French loan idea originated in a visit here of a French engineer at the Entreprise Lajoinie who was introduced to Leger in a letter from “his good friend” the French Minister at Ciudad Trujillo recommending this engineer highly and saying that he had the backing of the French Foreign Office. This letter dated October 16 was shown to me by Leger. The matter then proceeded to a point of a firm offer being about to be sent to Leger when difficulties arose, according to him, through French apprehension of the Haitian-Dominican affair. Now, however, as I indicated later in this telegram this obstruction seems to be removed. (There seems to be a certain contradiction in the attitude of the Haitian Government in regard to the Haitian-Dominican affair and the fact that apparently this no longer is considered an obstacle to the French loan.)

The loan in the amount of some $20,000,000 is to come from moneys in the possession of a semi-official French institution which originated after the war as a depository for certain funds. As there is no employment locally for these funds the French Government is glad to have them used for the present purpose and the French Foreign Office has approved the same. The issue price will be around 95 and the interest rate apparently quite satisfactory. Leger said nothing regarding the duration of the loan. As the French authorities do not wish to appear in the matter the money will be loaned in the first instance to Barclays Bank who will in turn loan the money either directly to the Haitian Government or through the Entreprise Lajoinie. Leger was a little vague about this point. There is no question of customs control which apparently had not been requested. The guarantee demanded by the French was a continuation of the National Bank of Haiti’s present position with regard to Government funds. Leger felt that eventually some form of foreign overseeing would be requested in the bank on behalf of the creditors. This Leger hoped could be worked out by appointing an American, preferably De la Rue himself.

Leger added that he had recently received a cablegram from Paris that a firm offer had been mailed to him November 18. Upon its receipt (if it is satisfactory) he will at once fly to New York, meet De la Rue, apparently discuss the matter further with the Department, sail to France accompanied by De la Rue to settle and sign the loan contract.

Leger admitted that the matter seemed to him most extraordinary and miraculous. I indicated discreetly that his own prestige as well as that of his Government was involved in this affair (having in mind the Debalway [ Debachy ] affair) See Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 667 ff. and that I had not previously encountered French, or indeed any other, financiers in the role of Santa Claus. Leger agreed to all of this but still felt that remarkable as it was the loan was assured and that everything would work out beautifully. He thought that a loan at this time would be exceedingly helpful not only for Haitian economy but with regard to the Dominican affair.

Mayer


---
## [d560] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3492: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , November 26, 1937—2 p.m. [Received 4:56 p.m.]

126. Legation’s 124, November 23, 3 p.m. Not printed. In a conversation Pixley has just had with Leger concerning the French loan the latter said that he had now received a telegram signed “Bellamy” from the principals in Paris stating that they were awaiting his arrival there to sign the contract. The principals presumably are the “fonds des bien privees” the semiofficial French institution mentioned in the fourth paragraph of my 121, November 22, 4 [ 3 ] p.m. According to Leger Entreprise Lajoinie is to have charge of public works construction and to collect six or seven percent commission on them; that there is no provision that materials must be bought in France and that the loan is in dollars. Leger further indicated to Pixley that his reason for wishing to keep the loan matter secret for the time being was in order to prevent the 1910 bondholders from learning of the loan as there is nothing in it to satisfy them and they might bring influence to bear on the Foreign Office to block it.

Leger further informed Pixley that he expected to receive on Sunday the letter said to have been mailed in Paris on November 18 (see second paragraph of my 124, November 23, 3 p.m.) and anticipated leaving by plane on Tuesday en route to France to be accompanied by De la Rue. While in the United States Leger would discuss the whole affair with the Department.

In order to have everything prepared Leger said that there was to be a Cabinet meeting this morning to approve the loan and to give Leger authority to go to Paris to sign the contract. Leger added that he would permit news of this meeting to leak out today in order to encourage public opinion and help divert it from the Dominican affair. Pixley indicated to Leger the danger of such action if the loan project should not eventuate but Leger thought that this was not a sufficient reason to change his proposed procedure with regard to the Cabinet meeting, et cetera.

Pixley understands that this famous letter of November 18 was mailed by Barclay’s Bank in Paris.

We also understand that the engineer of the Entreprise Lajoinie with whom Leger dealt here and with whom he has been communicating in Paris is named Dauvin.

Mayer


---
## [d561] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3495: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , November 29, 1937—10 a.m. [Received 12:45 p.m.]

130. The Department’s 64, November 27, 3 p.m. Not printed; it repeated telegram No. 1666, November 26, 4 p.m., from the Ambassador in France which reported further inquiries at the Foreign Office and Paris branch of Barclay’s Bank, both of which disclaimed any knowledge of the proposed Haitian loan (838.51/3491). Pixley has just learned from Leger that the letter of November 18 has arrived; that since receiving the letter Leger feels that “it is practically certain” that the loan will be worked out and that he is leaving by plane tomorrow night for New York en route to France. Leger has not as yet informed me of the arrival of the letter as he said he would do.

If Leger calls me over and discusses the matter, I feel it is only fair to give him the information contained in the Department’s 64, November 27, 3 p.m., in an effort to assist him in every proper way to an understanding of the situation before he takes the final step of leaving Haiti for France. On the other hand from what I now know I am inclined not to volunteer this further information. It seems to me that to do so might only be interpreted by Leger as an effort to block a loan which he appears to believe in his pocket, especially since similar accommodation has not been made to Haiti in the United States. I am all the more of this view because the Department and De la Rue will perhaps have even more definite information by the time Leger should reach the United States and they could then go into the matter with him if they so desired.

Would appreciate telephonic instructions if the Department desires me to act otherwise.

Mayer


---
## [d562] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3497: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , November 30, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 5:25 p.m.]

131. Legation’s 130, November 29, 10 a.m. I have just seen Leger off on the plane to the United States. He called me over to the Foreign Office this morning to say that he had received his letter from Paris, which he did not show me, but which he said satisfied him that there was every probability that he could arrange the loan. He realized the personal risk he was taking but felt that there was justification for going. He would stop off at Washington to talk with the Department. I had the impression, however, that Leger is less certain about the loan, after receipt of the letter; that the matter of guarantees is still unsettled although Leger said he felt that this would work out all right.

I told Leger the substance of telegram No. 1666 of November 26, 4 p.m. from the Embassy in Paris to the Department. See footnote 47, p. 558 . I said that this further information had come in and it seemed only proper that he should have everything we had on the subject, not with any idea whatsoever of obstructing the loan but merely to be helpful. Incidentally, Leger confirmed that the French Chargé d’Affaires had spoken to him recently pursuant to instructions from the Foreign Office in Paris and presumably along the line indicated in the Embassy’s telegram from Paris.

Leger said he entirely understood our position in the matter but was somewhat disturbed that our inquiries in Paris might get the matter noised about. I felt it necessary to remark at this juncture that as a matter of fact the object of his trip seemed to be rather generally known here. For example a private individual had volunteered to us several days ago not only news of the loan project and his trip but actually the names of the negotiators. For the Department’s strictly confidential information this Haitian claimed to have this direct from the President which I believe is correct. Furthermore, the British Minister yesterday told me that Leger himself had spoken to him recently about the loan and his trip to Paris.

All the inconsistencies and somewhat incredible circumstances surrounding the French loan negotiations inspire the feeling that we may not know the whole story either of the loan negotiations or of an ulterior motive which may also be involved. Indeed, British Minister indicated to me last night his feeling that Leger may be glad to escape from a political situation here in which he would not wish to be involved.

Mayer


---
## [d563] The Minister in Haiti ( Mayer ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3517: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , December 23, 1937—4 p.m. [Received 5:21 p.m.]

164. President Vincent has received a telegram from Leger stating that in spite of the firm offer of the Biens Privees they are now unable to proceed with the loan. Leger states he has seen the President of the Council who promised to discuss the matter with the Minister for Finance with a view to the immediate conclusion of a loan and a commercial convention. Leger consequently has requested Vincent to hold off further reduction of the coffee export tax for 8 days, but Vincent has, apparently, telegraphed Leger that the situation here is grave and that Paris negotiations must be hastened.

Mayer



# CHAPTER [ch33] Good offices of the United States in negotiations for a renewal of the Franco-Haitian commercial agreement; and in inducing France not to inject the 1910 loan matter therein For previous correspondence, see Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 667 ff., and ibid ., 1936, vol. v , pp. 670 ff.

---
## [d564] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.61333/81

No. 407 Port-au-Prince , February 5, 1937 . [Received February 9.]

Sir : With reference to my despatch No. 406, of February 5, 1937, Not printed. transmitting and summarizing President Vincent’s recent message to the Legislature, I have the honor to call the Department’s attention to the paragraphs in the message dealing with the question of markets for Haitian coffee.

After stating that during the past year the denunciation of the French treaty Franco-Haitian commercial convention of April 12, 1930, denounced by France March 18, 1936; for text, see British and Foreign State Papers , vol. cxxxiii , p. 419. had aroused serious apprehension and that Haitian exporters were pessimistic as to the possibility of disposing of the next coffee crop in the United States or on European markets other than the French, the President declares that the opinion of the Government, based on thorough inquiries, was that the opening of new markets for Haitian coffee could be realized—on condition of better cooperation from planters and exporters—and in conclusion he says: “This matter seems definitely to be working out to our advantage. In fact, we have a new market and the buying offers which our exporters are receiving greatly exceed our stocks.”

The facts that up to date no notable progress has been made in the negotiations looking to a resumption of Franco-Haitian commercial relations and that French pressure for a settlement of the 1910 loan question For text of French gold loan of 1910, see Le Moniteur, Journal Offlciel de la République d’Haiti , October 26, 1910, p. 606; for related correspondence, see ante , pp. 526 ff. has, temporarily at least, abated, have of course constituted probative indications that President Vincent has felt sufficiently secure with respect to the disposal of this year’s coffee crop to enable him to adopt a firm attitude towards France. Recalling, however, the many weeks during the Spring and early Summer of 1936 when the President was a prey to constant indecision concerning the possibilities for marketing his next coffee crop outside of France, and consequently concerning his policy towards that country—and the unremitting efforts necessary to keep him from giving way to pessimism and relapsing supinely into a policy of unreasonable dependence upon France, coupled with a yielding to unjustified demands on her part (see my despatches 241 of June 4, Not printed. 243 of June 8, Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 677 . 254 of June 20, 1936 Not printed. )—I must admit that it is a source of much satisfaction to have, in this widely publicized message to the Legislature, a concrete and formal acknowledgment by the President (even if it is only such to those who know the whole background) that the course urged upon him has proven to be the wise one and wholly to the best interests of his country.

Respectfully yours,

George A. Gordon


---
## [d565] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/137: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 16, 1937—noon . [Received 1:30 p.m.]

6. Department’s telegraphic instruction 24, October 28, 7 p.m. Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 681 . The Foreign Minister Georges Léger. told me this morning that negotiations for a renewal of the Franco-Haitian commercial treaty have now reached a more active and concrete stage.

Although the French Government has not officially stated that it would disjoin the 1910 loan question from treaty negotiations, the fact remains that last autumn the French Government declared in an official note that it would not resume negotiations for the conclusion of the commercial treaty unless and until the Haitian Government agreed to submit the 1910 claim to judicial or arbitral decision and that now, without anything whatever being said concerning a settlement of the 1910 loan claim, treaty negotiations are actively proceeding.

Amplifying despatch by airmail.

Gordon


---
## [d566] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/139: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , March 24, 1937—noon . [Received 2:40 p.m.]

10. My despatch No. 447 of March 16. Not printed. Having been informed that negotiations with the French are now rapidly coming to a head and that over and above the additional non-specialty articles referred to on page 3 of my said despatch it is proposed to include additional products in the avenant , I thought it well this morning to see the Foreign Minister, verify this information and remind him of the position of our Government as declared to the Haitian Government in 1935 when Haiti was negotiating with France See Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 650 ff. for the resumption of the commercial treaty and the avenant of 1934. Signed March 10, 1934; for text, see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la République d’Haiti , April 23, 1934, p. 255. The avenant extended the Franco-Haitian commercial convention of April 12, 1930.

When I called upon the Foreign Minister he verified the information above set forth and I thereupon read him the pithy passages of the Department’s telegraphic instruction No. 21 of June 20, 1935. Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , p. 661 . I told him that I wished our construction of the most-favored-nation principle to be clearly understood and that I should like equally clearly to understand that his Government agreed with this construction.

After a brief discussion he stated that wherever by treaty Haiti had granted most-favored-nation treatment she intended to stand by it fully and to do nothing to evade the obligations thus assumed.

Amplifying despatch by air mail tomorrow.

Gordon


---
## [d567] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/142: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , April 29, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 3:15 p.m.]

14. My despatches 453 of March 24, and 465 of April 7. Neither printed. The Foreign Minister informed me today that exchange of notes Signed April 28, 1937; for text, see France, Journal Ofllciel , May 15, 1937, p. 5293. effecting modus vivendi pending consummation of Franco-Haitian commercial treaty negotiations had just been signed. The modus vivendi gives Haiti a quota of approximately 37,000 sacks of coffee to be shipped from here between now and September 1; the French get straight minimum tariff treatment and there is no mention of an avenant or of specific tariff reductions for additional non-specialty articles.

Amplifying despatch by air mail.

Gordon


---
## [d568] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/143

No. 482 Port-au-Prince , April 29, 1937 . [Received May 4.]

Sir : I have the honor to amplify as follows my telegram No. 14 of this date.

I called upon the Foreign Minister this morning to inquire concerning Franco-Haitian commercial treaty negotiations, stating that I had been informed that more conciliatory instructions had lately been received by the French Minister, and that consequently negotiations were now going ahead on a basis more favorable to Haiti; that I had also been informed that a modus vivendi pending the consumption of these negotiations would probably be signed today.

M. Léger confirmed this information and stated that as a result of an instruction received yesterday by the French Minister clearing up the last point at issue, an exchange of notes had been signed today effecting the modus vivendi in question, according to the terms of which France gives Haiti a quota of approximately 37,000 sacks of coffee to be shipped from here between now and September 1,—the original French proposal for a Haitian coffee quota was predicated upon Haitian coffee stocks in Havre, which of course was not of much interest to the Haitian government. The French receive straight minimum tariff treatment, and in the exchange of notes there is no mention of an avenant or of specific tariff reductions for additional non-specialty articles (see my despatches Nos. 447 of March 16 and 453 of March 24 Neither printed. ).

The terms of the modus vivendi will be published in an official communiqué to be issued this afternoon.

M. Leger further informed me that the Haitian and French governments are now quite close together on all important points of the forthcoming commercial agreement, though he anticipates that the treaty will not actually be signed for a month or more because, he said, if he might speak confidentially, “the French are such terrible skinflints ( grippe-sous )”.

The basis of the new treaty will be a Haitian coffee quota of some 150,000 sacks, with an additional approximately 6,250 sacks for every one million francs worth of French imports into Haiti above a minimum importation by Haiti of ten million francs worth of French goods annually. In this connection Léger said that as Haiti had practically never imported less than ten million francs worth of French goods annually, even when the franc was around 15 to the dollar, he thought there was little chance of this amount of imports proving artificial—i. e., more than the Haitians needed to, or normally would, import—now that the franc was getting nearer to 25 to the dollar.

Another point on which he had had trouble with the French was with respect to Haiti’s purchases in France of material for public services. In the earlier stages of the negotiations the French had tried to obligate Haiti to purchase nearly ten million francs of such material annually, which Léger had flatly refused; negotiations now concern a figure of below two million francs annually.

In reply to my question as to what he proposed to do concerning the percentage of coffee to be shipped to France in French bottoms, Leger replied that in this connection, as well as with respect to the question of Haitian purchases of French coffee sacks, he did not feel that he could insist on less than the French had had by the exchange of notes and so called gentlemen’s agreement of 1935 (restoring the lapsed treaty of 1930 and avenant of 1934), but that he had not agreed to anything above those quantities, and he felt that the French would be satisfied therewith. I may parenthetically observe here that I do not see why M. Léger should not attempt to get better terms at least with respect to the purchase of French coffee sacks, inasmuch as I understand that the local coffee merchants have been very dissatisfied with this provision of the 1935 exchange of notes, feeling that the price of French jute coffee sacks is much too high.

Turning to the question of the French 1910 loan claim, Leger recalled that in one of our first conversations after he came into office he had told me that while he would not consent to submit this claim to arbitration or to the Permanent Court, or to make any substantial compromise payment, he would make a “symbolical” payment if that would dispose of the matter (see my telegram No. 46 of October 27, 1936 Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 680 . ). He said he wished now to tell me a little more fully what he had had in mind. The interest collected on 1910 loan bonds of holders who had refused to take paper francs for their holdings amounted to some $521,000. Léger’s idea was to pay ten million francs—approximately $448,000 at present rates of exchange—out of this fund to French claimants if this would dispose of the case once and for all. He felt that a settlement of this nature would be the only kind of an arrangement which would not admit the principle that the Haitians were obligated to pay the 1910 loan in gold.

He had not made such a proposal to the French Minister here, but he had let him know that certain Frenchmen interested in the claim had proposed such a scheme and that he, Léger, did not disapprove thereof, so that if the French Government wished to propose such a measure to him as a way of settling the 1910 claim he would be disposed to agree thereto; the French Government, through its Minister here, had replied that any such idea was entirely unacceptable. However, said Léger, the French had abandoned their last year’s position that they would refuse to proceed with negotiations for a new treaty until the Haitian Government had made a concrete step toward settlement of the 1910 claim, and had proceeded with negotiations which now were nearing consummation; consequently Léger said that he wouldn’t be surprised if eventually the French did agree to such a proposition. Even if they did, Léger concluded, he said he had made it clear that the Haitian treasury at present had no cash to pay even this relatively small amount, and he did not intend to do more by way of covering this obligation, if it were incurred, than to give five or ten year bonds carrying 4% interest.

My final comment on the above would be, first that I do not consider that Leger’s argument that a settlement of this nature would not constitute an admission of the claim of principle that the 1910 bonds are payable in gold, is at all convincing; and, secondly, that Léger’s other argument stops far short of its logical conclusion: i. e., if the French, after very categorically stating that they would not, have proceeded with negotiations for a commercial treaty without the Haitians taking any steps whatsoever towards settling the 1910 claim, it seems clearly to mean that the French made their bluff and it was called, and that therefore all the Haitians have to do is sit tight in confident expectation that the French will not be likely to venture the same bluff a second time. I understand that the 1910 bonds continue to come in steadily so that in the near future those still outstanding and represented by active claimants of gold payment will total a relatively small amount. M. Léger of course is equally aware of this, so that it would appear that he is prepared to give away something for nothing—at least as far as the Haitian Government is concerned.

Respectfully yours,

George A. Gordon


---
## [d569] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/149

No. 498 Port-au-Prince , June 1, 1937 . [Received June 4.]

Sir : With reference to my despatch No. 482 of April 29, dealing with Franco-Haitian commercial relations, I have the honor to report that during a call on the Foreign Minister this morning I asked him how the treaty negotiations were coming along and he said that whereas the last time he had spoken to me he did not think a treaty could be signed until towards the end of August, things had developed quicker than he had anticipated, and he now expects to sign up sometime in June. In fact he said that he and the French Minister had already drafted a treaty and had sent it to Paris for approval.

I then asked him if he still felt like giving away some money unnecessarily on the 1910 loan claim. Léger said he did not think it was entirely unnecessarily, to which I replied that when I last spoke to him I understood him to say he had made no commitments. Léger said that was true in that he had agreed to nothing on paper and that he had only told the French that if he did settle the claim it would only be on the basis mentioned in my despatch under reference. Leger said that the French were still saying that such a basis was unsatisfactory, but that they had by no means given up the idea of trying to get something out of this claim; only yesterday, he said, in haggling over the price of jute coffee sacks which the Haitians will agree to buy under the new treaty (as they did in the former treaty), the French had advanced as a counter-proposition to one of Leger’s propositions that the Haitians should agree to pay one thousand francs a bond for all bonds still outstanding.

Léger said that while he still would tell me that technically the signing of the treaty and a settlement of the 1910 claim were not linked up, and while, as stated in the preceding paragraph, the French still declared that they would not accept what Leger said would be the only possible basis for settlement, nevertheless he had given the French every reason to think that they could have a settlement on his basis when they wanted it, and he had to admit that he was at least under a moral obligation to make a settlement of that kind. So much so, he added, that if he were now to tell the French that he would not settle on any basis he was sure they would refuse to sign a commercial treaty.

I asked him if he did not really feel that what had compelled the French to negotiate for the renewal of the trade treaty was their own self-interest and the fact that the Haitians had for the first time in history demonstrated their independence of the French coffee market. In other words did he not believe that the Haitians had called the French bluff and only had to sit tight to avoid giving away something for nothing. Léger had no answer to make except to say that perhaps this was so, but he still felt that he would not get the treaty if he announced a refusal to settle, and he thought he would be acting in bad faith if he succeeded in getting the treaty signed and then turned around and refused to make any settlement of the claim.

I said that perhaps I was being more Catholic than the Pope, but that as long as the Haitians had spent the interest fund, whose equivalent Léger was prepared to pay out in 4% bonds, it irked me to see the Haitian Government taking this amount out of its treasury when there is no necessity to do so. I recalled to him that under the Agreement of August 7, 1933, Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. v , p. 755 . we had an interest in such a proposed increase of the public debt. Léger said that he realized that, but that he had not supposed that our Government would object to an issue of bonds of this nature. He said that if there was any chance of our Government objecting he hoped that the question might be examined at its earliest convenience, and that the Legation would inform him of our Government’s attitude so that he would know just where he stood. I told him that I would be glad to take the matter up when I arrived in the Department next week, and he said he would be grateful if I would do so.

Respectfully yours,

George A. Gordon


---
## [d570] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3355

No. 503 Port-au-Prince , June 12, 1937 . [Received June 15.]

Sir : I have the honor to report that I have only today received from the Fiscal Representative’s Office copies of correspondence which has recently taken place with regard to a case in Paris in which one, Moulin, appointed a sequestrator by a French court has been directed by that court to present five hundred 1910 Haitian bonds to the Banque de I’Union Parisienne for redemption in depreciated francs under a reserve that a future claim may be lodged for the difference between that value and the value of the bonds on a gold basis. The Fiscal Representative’s Office, as the Department will observe from the enclosed copies of the correspondence exchanged, Not printed. brought this matter to the attention of the Secretary of State for Finance who, in his reply of June 7, 1937, reaffirmed the position taken by the Haitian Government in the Cahin case (see this Legation’s telegram 136 of December 9, 12 noon 1933, Not printed. and subsequent correspondence) that: “The Haitian Government perceives no reason to modify the original arrangement made for the advance redemption of the bonds of the 5% 1910 loan of the Republic of Haiti and under which the bonds have been presented for redemption during the last ten years, and continue to be presented …” Omission indicated in the original. The Secretary of State for Finance has accordingly authorized the Fiscal Representative’s Office to telegraph as follows to Mr. Hartford Beaumont of the firm of Shearman and Sterling in New York, lawyers for the National City Bank: “Referring to new presentation Haitian 1910 bonds for encashment in depreciated French Francs under reserve of future claim for balance gold Francs Haitian Government does not feel it can depart from position set forth in letters dated July 3, 1933 to City Bank New York and Banque de l’Union Parisienne Paris to wit that Government sees no reason to modify arrangements originally made for redemption stop Accordingly City Bank France should instruct Banque de I’Union Parisienne to refuse payment under such reserve.”

The Department’s particular attention is invited to the statement contained in Mr. Beaumont’s telegram to the Fiscal Representative dated June 5, 1937, Not printed. wherein he gives his opinion that the refusal of the National City Bank in Paris to redeem these bonds under the specified reserve may result in the attachment of the Bank’s account with the Banque of France as happened in the Cahin matter in 1933. Mr. Beaumont goes on, however, to say that he presumes that the National City Bank could have this attachment vacated.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley


---
## [d571] The Department of State to the Haitian Legation
838.51/3365a

Memorandum

The Government of the United States has learned that the Haitian Government has under serious consideration the offer of a further settlement of certain alleged claims advanced by the holders of the outstanding bonds of the 1910 Haitian loan, in addition to the just and equitable payment offered to all bondholders of this loan at the time that the 1922 loans Loan contract of October 6, 1922, between the Republic of Haiti and the National City Company and the National City Bank, both of New York; for text (in French and English), see Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la Répubulique d’Haiti , October 30, 1922, pp. 533 and 537. For correspondence relating to the loan, see Foreign Relations , 1922, vol. ii , pp. 472 ff. were floated.

It will be recalled that the Haitian Government has for many years consistently maintained that the 1910 loan contract and the bonds themselves did not stipulate payment in “gold” French francs, and that in the phrase “Haitian 5 percent gold loan of 1910” the word “gold” merely referred to the security for the loan which was stipulated in the contracts and the bonds as based upon the collection of one dollar United States gold for every 100 pounds of exported coffee and fifteen percent special surtax in United States gold on the imports created by the law of August 20, 1909.

The Government of the United States on its part has likewise consistently sustained the Haitian position that the service of the 1910 loan was not payable in gold francs, and as the Haitian Government is well aware, the Government of the United States has on numerous occasions in the past, and as recently as 1934 and 1935, See ibid ., 1935, vol. iv , pp. 650 ff and 667 ff. lent its active good offices to the Haitian Government, when requested so to do by the Haitian Government, in making representations to the French Government on behalf of this position.

The Haitian Government will recall that in 1922 the United States underwriters of the loan to Haiti issued that year stipulated as a condition precedent to underwriting the loan that all outstanding Haitian loans should be retired. More specifically, the bankers stated that they could not approve the new loan unless they received assurances that the lien of the bonds of the 1910 loan upon Haitian revenues would be discharged by their call for redemption by the Haitian Government and the tender of the amount of the principal and interest thereof in French francs then in ordinary use and circulation. These assurances were given by the Department of State after consultation with the Haitian Government on November 22, 1922.

The Government of the United States is unaware of any subsequent developments in law or equity which would warrant an alteration of the attitude of the Haitian Government or of this Government towards the settlement of the 1910 loan. The Government of the United States is reluctant to believe, therefore, that the Haitian Government should so completely reverse its consistently maintained policy as now to be considering a further settlement with the intransigent holders of the outstanding bonds of the 1910 loan.

If the Haitian Government inclines to the view that a settlement on the outstanding bonds might create good will in French official and financial circles, it may be pointed out that the former holders of the bonds of the 1910 loan who accepted in good faith the just and equitable settlement offered them, would appear to have as good a right in equity to an additional settlement as have the holders of the outstanding bonds. It seems probable that far from disposing of the 1910 loan question the offer of a settlement when made, may cause a renewal of agitation in France for a settlement of the entire loan, and thus nullify any good will engendered by the restricted offer of payment.

It seems scarcely necessary to remind the Haitian Government that French investors who hold obligations of many other loans, including the Dawes and Young loans For the Dawes Plan, see British Cmd. 2105 (1924): Reports of the Expert Committees Appointed by the Reparations Commission ; for the Young Plan, see British Cmd. 3343 (1929): Report of the Committee of Experts on Reparations. and various international issues floated under the auspices of the League of Nations, whose contracts provide for payment in “gold” of a fixed weight and fineness, have accepted payment in depreciated paper francs.

The Government of the United States wishes to remind the Haitian Government that while the 1910 contract and bonds did not contain any clause stipulating payment in gold, the 1922 loan contracts and bonds all contained very carefully worded gold clauses. Notwithstanding these last-named carefully worded “gold” clauses, the service of the 1922 loans both as respects interest and amortization has, following the devaluation of the dollar in 1933, been fulfilled in devalued dollars. The United States Government has in existing circumstances no intention of supporting any claim on the part of its citizens for service either as to interest or amortization of the 1922 bonds in United States dollars of the weight and fineness specified at the time that the 1922 loan contracts were made valid. Moreover, it does not appear that so far the bondholders of the 1922 loan have seriously questioned the action of the Haitian Government in maintaining the service of the loan by payments in the present United States dollar.

It will be obvious to the Haitian Government, however, should a special further settlement be offered to the holders of the outstanding bonds of the 1910 loan, and no corresponding additional settlement be offered to holders of the bonds of the Haitian 1922 issue, that the charge of discrimination in favor of the holders of the French loan probably would be raised by the holders of the bonds of the 1922 loan.

Washington , [ June 22, 1937 .]


---
## [d572] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3367

No. 511 Port-au-Prince , June 26, 1937 . [Received June 29.]

Sir : I have the honor to report that during my visit to the Foreign Office yesterday, when another matter was discussed, Minister Léger took occasion to raise the question of the 1910 bonds. He said he had just received the Department’s memorandum on this subject from M. Lescot. Elie Lescot, Haitian Minister in the United States. Since I had not yet received a copy of this memorandum, M. Léger permitted me to read the original he had received.

The Minister then said that he wished to discuss this question somewhat at length, and that he would instruct Lescot what reply should be made. Meanwhile he wished to tell me frankly what his views are. He said that when he assumed office last October the question of the disposal of the 1936 coffee crop was of pressing importance. He for one was rather pessimistic as to the possibility of selling enough Haitian coffee in the United States to compensate for the loss of the French market following the renunciation of the French commercial convention. Four days after he had taken office he had had a long conversation with Minister Gordon on this subject (see Legation’s telegram No. 46, October 27, 1 p.m., 1936 Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 680 . ) and he had asked the Minister what he thought the Department could do to aid Haiti vis-à-vis the French. Mr. Gordon, he said, had referred this inquiry to the Department, and that after several days the reply had come back that the Department felt that it had done just about all it could in this direction at that time.

Note. I am unable to find out how the Foreign Minister received this impression, for the Department’s telegram No. 24, October 28, 7 p.m., 1936, Foreign Relations , 1936, vol v , p. 681 . indicated that “it would be inclined to consider extending its good offices further on behalf of the Haitian Government vis-à-vis the French Government if the French demands should prove unreasonable or unduly exigent”.

M. Léger then went on to say that he understood at this time that Haiti would have to tackle this problem unassisted by Washington. He felt then as he does now that the French bondholders have no legal claim against Haiti, and neither then nor now does he have any sentimental or other reason which would influence him to pay them one franc. Money was too hard to come by these days.

But he did as Foreign Minister have to find ways and means of disposing of Haiti’s coffee crop, and in looking around for some way to appease the French it occurred to him that something more than $500,000 had been received by the Haitian Government as interest on the money which the French bondholders had declined to accept in depreciated francs. Since the American Government felt unable to assist him, could he not find a way to appease the French by a token payment of this interest amounting to about $500,000 or in terms of francs, Frs. 10,000,000? It was true that this money was not available in cash to the Haitian Government since this interest had been currently considered an ordinary revenue of the Government and only a small amount remained available. His idea, therefore, providing the French were found to be receptive, was to issue bonds for this amount bearing 4% interest and payable in 15 years which might be turned over to the French Government for distribution as it saw fit.

In order not to compromise himself with the French, he determined to sound out the French Minister through the intermediary of M. Lespinasse, President of the French Chamber of Commerce in Port-au-Prince. He asked M. Lespinasse to find an occasion to talk with M. de Lens, French Minister to Haiti, and incidentally and casually to inquire whether the Minister thought that Frs. 10,000,000 payable in 15 years would satisfy the bondholders of the French Government and thus put an end to this thorny question. The French Minister, acting upon this inquiry, referred the matter to his Government but received no reply thereto.

In due course, however, M. de Lens was authorized by his Government to open new negotiations for a commercial convention. Nothing was said as these negotiations proceeded with regard to the Frs. 10,000,000 settlement, and he, M. Léger, took this to mean that for all practical purposes the French had accepted this indirect offer and so he went on to conclude the modus vivendi and later to draft the new commercial convention. The latter is now practically in its final form and ready for signature.

However, when it came time to sign the convention, the French Government proposed that this conclusion be accompanied by a settlement of the 1910 question on the basis of Frs. 1,000, per bond or approximately Frs. 20,000,000 in all. This was double what the Minister had offered indirectly. M. Léger said that he called in M. de Lens and told him in so many words that his Government could “ aller au diable ”; if he decided to give them anything he would not give them one franc more than Frs. 10,000,000. There the matter apparently rests and the French are showing no haste in concluding the convention. The French Commercial Attaché has left for other parts and the French Minister to Haiti has retired to Kenscoff.

Meanwhile, Léger said that the 1937 coffee crop bids fair to be a large one. While American purchases of Haiti’s coffee continue to be satisfactory, they are not yet large enough to warrant the belief that Haiti can dispense with the French market during the coming season. Moreover, it appears that the prices paid for Haitian coffee in the French market are somewhat greater than those paid in the United States. He therefore feels he must have this convention concluded as soon as possible. At this point the Foreign Minister again pointed out that he had never admitted the legality of the French claim against Haiti; that Haiti had no legal obligation to pay them anything; and he did not want to pay them anything. In order to settle the perennial difficulty, however, he had told them indirectly that he might be willing to settle for Frs. 10,000,000 if that would put an end to the matter; accordingly, if the French signed the commercial convention, he would feel morally bound to pay this sum. In no case would he pay them more.

M. Léger then asked me to put these views before my Government and inquire whether the Department now felt that it could use its good offices with the French Government to help Haiti obtain its objective in the French coffee market. He pointed out that the Haitian Government could not increase its public debt without the approval of the United States; also that this question of the 1910 bonds had had its origin during our Occupation and he felt that Haiti ought to receive our help in lifting this iron from the fire. He said in terminating the conversation that he intends to call in M. de Lens and let him read the Department’s memorandum.

I told M. Léger that I had already reported the attitude of the Haitian Government on this subject in so far as he had made it clear to me, and that I would again be glad upon his request to amplify what had already been sent to the Department.

In order to give the Department a clear picture of the present status of the 1910 bond account in New York, I have asked the Assistant Fiscal Representative Rex A. Pixley. to give me an inclusive memorandum which he has promised to do next week. Meanwhile, I enclose a statement Not printed. showing the rate at which these bonds have been redeemed from January, 1935 through April 1937.

During our conversation yesterday M. Leger expressed himself as being angry with Bogdan Norbert A. Bogdan, Vice President of the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation. and his associates in Paris for having entered into any discussion with the French Bondholders Council regarding this question. He said that Bogdan had no authorization from the Haitian Government to do this, and that experience has shown in the past that the 1910 bonds are redeemed at a relatively slower rate following any such hair-brained discussion as may have gone on in Paris this summer.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley


---
## [d573] Memorandum by the Under Secretary of State ( Welles ) to the Chief of the Division of the American Republics ( Duggan )
838.51/8406

[ Washington ,] July 7, 1937 .

Mr. Duggan : The Minister of Haiti left here this morning the attached memorandum Infra. replying to our memorandum of June 22.

Confidentially, the Minister expressed to me the hope that the good offices of the United States might once more be exercised in behalf of Haiti with the Government of France in order that the French Government would give Haiti direct assurances that no obstacle would be placed in the way of Haiti selling to France that portion of her coffee crop which she cannot market in the United States and which customarily is purchased by French importers and, second, that the French Government would likewise agree to regard as liquidated this long standing controversy over the 1910 bond payments.

The Minister said that he thought the arrangement which was now being discussed between Haiti and France with regard to some compensation to the holders of the 1910 bonds was in the highest degree prejudicial to Haiti and would only open the door to further attempts on the part of the French bondholders for additional compensation in the future and was entirely unnecessary and required neither in law nor in equity.

I told the Minister that we would be very glad once more informally to approach the French Government with a view to utilizing our good offices in behalf of Haiti but that of course I could give him no assurance at all that these steps would meet with any success.

S[ umner ] W[ elles ]


---
## [d574] The Haitian Legation to the Department of State
838.51/3406

[Translation]

Memorandum

In reply to the Memorandum of June 22nd last, relative to the claim of the holders of the 1910 loan, the Haitian Government is happy to be able to dissipate the uneasiness which the United States Government appears to feel with respect to its attitude towards the claim of the said holders.

In fact, the Haitian Government is not conducting any negotiations with France that would imply the abandonment of the thesis which the Republic of Haiti, in full accord on this point with the Government of the United States, has always firmly maintained, that is, that the loan contract of 1910 does not involve any obligation to repay anything but paper francs.

The Haitian Government is just as much aware as the United States Government of the danger there would be in acknowledging the principle of a debt in gold francs, and it does not hesitate to give formal assurance that it will never acknowledge such an obligation against it.

The United States Government has been good enough to recall the good offices it has rendered the Haitian Government in the past, in the controversies on that subject that have existed. The Haitian Government highly appreciates this friendly attitude of the United States Government, and it does not fail to recognize either the scope of the assurances given the bankers who financed the 1922 loan. However, despite those good offices, it is undeniable that a serious controversy exists between the French Government and the Haitian Government concerning the 1910 loan. This controversy has had the consequence of leading France to denounce the treaty of commerce which bound her with the Republic of Haiti, which has provoked, as a measure of reprisal, the application of the maximum Haitian customs tariff to French goods and has resulted, in fact, in the almost complete breaking off of trade relations between the two countries.

The Haitian Government believes it should emphasize that the normal flow of the coffee crop is at the basis of the economic and fiscal life of the Republic of Haiti. Great efforts, crowned with a certain amount of success, have been made to introduce Haitian coffee into the United States market. It is the intention of the Haitian Government to continue these efforts and to neglect nothing, in order to win an advantageous position for the Haitian product in the United States.

Nevertheless, despite the efforts just spoken of, the United States market absorbed only the quantity of about fifty thousand sacks of Haitian coffee during the crop year 1936–1937 and at prices which, on the whole, have been a little below those given by Havre. On the other hand, despite the denouncement of the Franco-Haitian Convention, Havre was the largest purchaser of Haitian coffee during the last crop year. Such purchases have doubtless been made because of the hope which the trade of Havre had that a prompt solution would be found for the difficulties between France and Haiti. Those hopes have not been realized. The result is that a large part of the coffee purchased during the last crop year is still in stock in Havre warehouses. It is certain that if no agreement is reached the Republic of Haiti cannot count on purchases by Havre for the coming crop year and, consequently, that the Republic of Haiti will run the twofold risk of being unable, on the one hand, to count on the Havre market for the 1937–1938 crop year and, on the other hand, of seeing its French customers form the fixed habit of buying coffees of other origin.

For another thing, it is reported that the 1937–1938 crop is to be unusually large. But nothing indicates that the United States market will absorb the coffee coming from the new crop in a larger amount than last year. There is also to be pointed out the considerable drop in profit that would result for the Haitian trade by the loss of the French market; in fact, while New York generally pays only the Santos price, or a price even below Santos, for Haitian coffee, the Havre market has, on the contrary, always given Haitian coffee a premium over Santos.

The Haitian Government believes that the United States Government will agree that the circumstances just pointed out constitute a de facto situation which amply justifies the efforts it believes it must make to put an end to the difficulties with France.

The United States Government will likewise consider that it is not possible for the Haitian Government, responsible to the Haitian people for the management of its affairs, to remain indifferent to the danger which menaces the general Haitian economy. The Haitian Government found itself under all the greater obligation to seek for a solution, in that it had been informed in October 1936 by the United States Minister at Port-au-Prince that his Government did not think that it was possible for it to make any new effort, for the time being, to aid in settling the 1910 matter.

Negotiations have therefore been conducted with the French Government. These negotiations have not yet led to any definitive arrangement. The basis considered does not impair in any way the juridical position assumed in the past and which the Republic of Haiti continues to assume. The Haitian Government has taken into consideration the fact that from the approximately 25,000,000 frs. representing the sum of the 1910 obligations not presented for payment, it has, from 1923 to this date, received interest exceeding the amount of $500,000. The Haitian Government thinks that it might agree to pay to the holders of the 1910 [loan], Brackets here and elsewhere in this document appear in the file translation. through the French Government, a sum representing nearly the total of that interest. In order to avoid any embarrassment to the Treasury of the Republic of Haiti, the payment of 10,000,000.00 francs has been envisaged (which, at the current rate, represents a little less than the $500,000 collected), by means of an emission of obligations payable in fifteen years and bearing 4 percent interest. The Haitian Government wishes to dwell upon the fact that such an arrangement, if concluded, would not impair in any way its juridical position with respect to repayment in paper francs, would only return to the holders of the 1910 [obligations] money which the Haitian Government would never have received if the bonds had been presented for redemption and, if the terms are considered, would constitute a very slight burden on the Republic of Haiti, particularly in view of the advantages the national economy derives from the Havre market. The drop in profits which would result from the loss of the Havre market for as large a crop as that which may be expected for 1937–1938, would probably exceed for that one year the total amount of the compensation to be given the holders of 1910 [obligations].

Moreover, the Haitian Government can hardly see in what way such an arrangement could injure the rights of the holders of the 1922 loan. The Haitian Government highly appreciates the assurance that the United States Government has just been good enough to give it, that it does not intend to support any claim that its citizens might make on the occasion of the payment of the 1922 loan in devalued dollars. It notes with satisfaction that it does not seem that the holders of 1922 [obligations] are thinking of calling in question the Haitian Government’s absolute right to effect the payment in this way.

By reason of this assurance which the United States Government has been good enough to give it, the Haitian Government does not believe it necessary to set forth the reasons which, in its opinion, would render such a claim of the holder of 1922 [bonds] hard to maintain. It desires to lay emphasis on the fact that the arrangement with the French Government that is envisaged would, assuming that it is made, constitute neither favored treatment of the holders of 1910 [bonds] nor an act of discrimination against the holders of 1922 [bonds]. The arrangement contemplated would only permit holders of 1910 [bonds] who have not been paid yet to recover a part of the interest on the funds that were deposited in order to be paid to them. The question of determining whether in law, such interest does not belong to such holders is evidently a question that may give rise to controversy, but it is certain that as a matter of equity the holders of 1910 [bonds] have grounds for cleaning such interest. Hence it appears that such an arrangement would not give them any privileged treatment of such a nature as to disturb the susceptibilities of the holders of the 1922 loan.

The Haitian Government wishes to add that the agreement contemplated would definitively put an end to all controversies between France and Haiti with regard to the 1910 loan.

Washington , July 7, 1937 .


---
## [d575] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3377b: Telegram

Washington , July 13, 1937—7 p.m.

28. Following a brief conversation with Welles concerning the insistance by France upon a settlement of the 1910 loan claim as a condition of the negotiation of a commercial convention, Henry Jules Henry, French Minister in the United States. telegraphed the Foreign Office for information. Yesterday he told Duggan that the Foreign Office had replied that it has offered to settle the 1910 loan claim on the basis of 1000 paper francs, apparently of present value, for each outstanding bond. Henry endeavored to argue that since the franc had undergone further depreciation recently the amount which Haiti would have to pay under the proposed settlement has actually decreased.

Duggan again spoke to Henry along the usual lines, namely, an expression of the interest of this Government in Haiti’s obtaining a satisfactory quota in the French coffee market, and of concern with France’s linking settlement of the 1910 loan claim with the negotiation of a commercial convention. Henry said that he would communicate once again our views to his Government.

You are authorized in your discretion to communicate the above to the Minister for Foreign Relations. At the same time you may say that the Government is at a loss to understand how Mr. Leger could have received the impression last fall that this Government was unprepared to continue extending its good offices in behalf of Haiti with respect to its attitude on the 1910 loan vis-à-vis France. You may refer to the contents of the Department’s telegram No. 24 of October 28, 1936, 7 p.m., Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 681 . which was communicated by you to Mr. Leger. You may say that since no further information was forthcoming from the Haitian Government as to the nature of the demands which France had made in connection with a new commercial agreement with Haiti, and since there was no indication that these demands were “unduly exigent or unreasonable” the Department consequently at that time was unaware of any reasons which would induce it to take further action on Haiti’s behalf with respect to France.

Duggan saw Lescot today and informed him of the nature of his conversation with Henry.

The Embassy at Paris is being instructed to reinforce the views expressed to Henry directly to the Foreign Office.

Hull


---
## [d576] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3378: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 15, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 11:30 p.m.]

44. Department’s 28, July 13, 7 p.m. I had a long interview with Foreign Minister this morning and communicated to him the views contained in the Department’s telegram under reference. I not only reread to him the contents of the Department’s 24, October 28, 7 p.m. 1936 Foreign Relations , 1936, vol. v , p. 681 . but also recalled to him that on March 16 last (see my despatch No. 447 of that date Not printed. ) I had reminded him of his inquiry concerning the Department’s disposition to assist Haiti and the Department’s above-mentioned reply thereto.

I informed Leger that in response to the renewed request recently made by the Haitian Government the Department of State had been glad again to exercise its good offices vis-à-vis the French Government both as regards a coffee quota and the 1910 loan.

I suggested to the Foreign Minister that if he would show a disposition to refrain from making a compromise payment to the French it would in my opinion help the situation with respect to our representations to the French Government. In particular I suggested that as the French on the very eve of signing the commercial treaty had refused to do so on the sole ground of this 1910 claim, if Leger could even assure me that in consequence thereof he now no longer felt even morally bound to pay the French the 10 million francs which he had once proposed (see Legation’s despatches numbers 498 of June 1 and 511 of June 26) it would help.

Leger replied that he could not give me an assurance of this importance without first consulting the President but that he would consult the latter (who is at Kenscoff) tomorrow morning and would give me a reply.

Leger professes to be unable to get away from the dilemma that if our representations to the French have no effect the Haitian Government will have to pay some amount of “blackmail” (Leger’s word) in order to avoid a heavier loss through the closing of the French coffee market.

I told Leger that I noted with regret that he was disposed to discard the reasoning contained in the Memorandum Ante , p. 569 . handed to Lescot (the Legation’s copy is dated June 22) concerning potential claims on the part of 1910 bondholders who accepted payment in paper francs and of 1922 bondholders on the ground of discrimination. Leger replied that he did not think these possibilities were seriously dangerous whereas the eventuality of not being able to dispose of this year’s coffee crop on account of losing the French Market was.

Leger repeatedly stated that he greatly regretted having misunderstood the Department’s position as set forth in its 24, October 28, 7 p.m., and that when I reread it to him this morning he could see plainly that far from expressing any unreadiness to continue extending our good offices in behalf of Haiti it made clear our inclination to do so upon due cause therefor being shown; he only hoped that his misunderstanding had done no harm.

I shall cable further tomorrow.

Gordon


---
## [d577] The Minister in Haiti ( Gordon ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3381: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 17, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 2:50 p.m.]

47. My 44, July 15, 1 p.m. Leger excused himself for not having seen me yesterday saying that he had returned too late from Kenscoff. However, I have this morning had long conversations with him and with the President the net result of which as regards the 1910 claim is as follows:

Leger will see the French Minister tomorrow or Monday and, referring to the 10,000,000 francs proposition informally made to the French Government, tell him that if the French Government now agrees to such settlement Leger is prepared to go through with it as far as the Haitian Government is concerned. Leger will again say categorically to the French Minister that under the terms of the 1933 agreement such settlement cannot be consummated unless the agreement of the American Government is secured.

If the French Minister is not prepared to agree and does not secure his Government’s agreement by cable within a week at most Leger will formally tell him that the Haitian Government resumes its full liberty of action concerning the 1910 claim and no longer considers itself even morally bound by any informal propositions heretofore made.

I shall report more fully on other phases of my conversation with the President upon my forthcoming arrival in the Department.

Gordon


---
## [d578] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3393: Telegram

Washington , July 22, 1937—7 p.m.

29. Your 47, July 17, 1 p.m. In response to a personal telegram from the Under Secretary requesting that Ambassador Bullitt, William C. Bullitt, Ambassador in France. if favorable opportunity should arise, express to Delbos Yvon Delbos, French Minister for Foreign Affairs. our difficulty in understanding the insistence of the French Government in obtaining an additional settlement on the 1910 Haitian loan as a condition precedent to the granting of a reasonable quota for Haitian coffee, Mr. Bullitt cabled as follows: “I spoke to Delbos in the presence of both Chautemps Camille Chautemps, French Minister of State. and Blum Leon Blum, French President of the Council of Ministers. with regard to the attitude of the French Government toward Haiti. Delbos said that he knew nothing whatsoever about the matter; that it had never even been mentioned to him. He promised to inform himself immediately and asserted as did Chautemps that the French Government would desire to do everything possible to meet the wishes of our Government in any matter concerning Haiti. I shall discuss the question with Delbos at our next meeting.”

Hull


---
## [d579] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Haiti ( Gordon )
838.51/3393: Telegram

Washington , July 24, 1937—4 p.m.

30. My 29, 7 p.m. Following telegram has been received from American Embassy, Paris: “I discussed yesterday with Delbos and Rochat, director of the American Section of the Foreign Office, the question of French relations with Haiti. Delbos was rather shocked by certain facts which I presented to him and ordered Rochat to investigate the matter thoroughly and give me an explanation today.”

Hull


---
## [d580] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3396: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 27, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 2:26 p.m.]

50. Legation’s 47 of July 17, 1 p.m. Leger sent for me this morning in accordance with his promise and said that he had heard nothing from the French Government except the report of his Minister in Paris to the effect that France would not sign a commercial convention with Haiti except on the basis of a payment of 1000 francs per bond to the 1910 holders. Inasmuch as a week had elapsed since his last conversation with the French Minister here he no longer considers himself bound, even morally, to pay the French holders the 10,000,000 francs he had informally offered them. He has not yet, however, had an opportunity to inform Monsieur de Lens of his decision owing to the reluctance of the latter to come down from Kenscoff. He has not sent for him formally and expects to inform him tomorrow. Meanwhile, he said I might inform my Government. He will let me know as soon as this conversation has taken place.

Finley


---
## [d581] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3399: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , July 30, 1937—10 a.m. [Received 12:20 p.m.]

51. My 50, July 27, 1 p.m. Leger, who had failed to send for me yesterday, told me last evening when I met him casually that he had talked with the French Minister to Haiti on July 28 and had told him that he no longer feels bound, even morally, to pay the French 1910 bondholders the 10 million francs he had tentatively offered them as a settlement. Monsieur de Lens begged Leger, the latter said, to hold the question open until he could obtain additional instructions from his Government. The Foreign Minister stated that he replied that while he would always be willing to listen to what the French Government wished to say, the Haitian Government had recovered entire freedom of action in this matter. De la Rue Sidney de la Rue, Fiscal Representative. states that Leger made the same assertions to him.

Leger again expressed his appreciation of the efforts that are being made by our Embassy at Paris and said that he was more optimistic since Duggan had told Lescot that Delbos expected to go personally into the Haitian question.

Finley


---
## [d582] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3404: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 2, 1937—noon . [Received 1:55 p.m.]

55. Legation’s 53, August 2, 9 a.m. Not printed. Leger has informed me that the purpose of the French Minister’s visit to the Foreign Office this morning was to propose a new examination by them of two or three minor points in the draft of the Franco-Haitian commercial convention. Leger told De Lens that while he was quite willing to discuss any of these points he felt it would be a waste of time to do so unless France was now seriously interested in concluding the convention. Leger said he was unable to decide from what De Lens said whether this new proposal can or cannot be taken as an indication that the French Government is disposed to divorce the 1910 question from that of the commercial convention. He naturally hopes so. In any case he said he repeated very emphatically to De Lens, in order that there could be no mistake, that he had resumed complete liberty of action in the 1910 matter and that he did not feel bound, even morally, to pay the French bondholders anything.

Finley


---
## [d583] The Ambassador in France ( Bullitt ) to the Secretary of State Text of this telegram was transmitted to the Chargé in Haiti in Department’s No. 34, August 7, 4 p.m.
838.51/3415: Telegram

Paris , August 7, 1937—10 a.m. [Received August 7—9:15 a.m.]

1128. Your 409, August 4, 4 p.m. Not printed. Cochran H. Merle Cochran, First Secretary of Embassy. discussed the Haitian loan question with Bargeton Paul Pierre Louis Bargeton, Director of Political and Economic Affairs. and De Cloux Andre Leon DeCloux, attached to the American Section of the Office of Political and Economic Affairs. at the Foreign Office yesterday. Bargeton stated that French information with regard to the withdrawal of the Haitian offer of settlement was by no means so definite as the American report. He recalled to Cochran the difficulties which had been experienced in the past through the French and American Governments receiving varying statements from Haitian officials. He said he could make no reply immediately since further information would have to be sought from Haiti and various French experts consulted.

In reply to Cochran’s argument that the commercial treaty should be handled entirely apart from the 1910 bond matter, De Cloux mentioned the possibility of extending perhaps in a somewhat modified form the provisional trade arrangement with Haiti which expires August 31.

Bullitt


---
## [d584] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3416: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 9, 1937—noon . [Received 3:24 p.m.]

61. Department’s 34, August 7, 4 p.m. See footnote 91, p. 583 . I read Leger most of the Department’s telegram. He reaffirmed that the French Government could be under no possible misapprehension as to his position in the 1910 matter. He had several times repeated his declaration to the French Minister here that he no longer feels bound even morally to pay the French bondholders anything. De Lens assured him that he had transmitted this information to his Government. To make certain that it reached Paris correctly he had asked his Minister there to say the same at the Foreign Office and he had done so.

The Legation has considerable ground for believing that De Lens may have understated Leger’s declaration to his Government. De Lens expects to leave Haiti in the near future and has expressed anxiety to Leger that his career may be prejudiced unless he can show some tangible success in these negotiations.

With regard to the modus vivendi , Signed April 28, 1937; for text, see France, Journal Officiel , May 15, 1937, p. 5293. Leger said that neither Haiti nor France had materially benefitted by this arrangement. The minimum tariff rates which had been accorded French specialties such as wine were still too high greatly to increase the volume of imports. Moreover, the temporary nature of the agreement had naturally prevented any “futures” market for Haitian coffee in France.

Leger said he personally was not in favor of raising duties on French imports to the maximum level upon the expiration of the modus vivendi . However he expected to inform De Lens that the Haitian Government is seriously considering this step unless the French quota for Haitian coffee can be materially increased by prolonging the arrangement. He said that he considered 30,000 or 40,000 bags wholly inadequate. He wanted to see how the French would react to this.

Finley


---
## [d585] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
838.51/3419: Telegram

Washington , August 12, 1937—8 p.m.

38. With reference to the Department’s telegram 37, August 12, 7 p.m. Not printed. reporting the conversations of the American Ambassador with the Haitian Minister in Paris Yrech Chatelain. and with the Acting French Minister for Foreign Affairs, please seek an early interview with Leger and inform him that the Department’s reports from Paris are that the French Government has not been advised either by the Haitian Minister or its Minister in Port-au-Prince, of any withdrawal of the Haitian Government’s offer of $500,000 to holders of the 1910 bonds in exchange for signature of the Trade Convention. You may say that this Government will be glad to continue to support Haiti’s opposition to making this unjustifiable payment on the 1910 loan but cannot do so unless it is thoroughly informed as to the line the Haitian Government is pursuing and intends to pursue in its negotiations with the French Government.

Hull


---
## [d586] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3426

No. 539 Port-au-Prince , August 14, 1937 . [Received August 16.]

Sir : I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 64, dated August 13, 12 noon, 1937, Not printed. and to transmit the text and a translation thereof of a Note dated August 13, 1937, which has been received from the Haitian Foreign Office regarding the attitude of the Haitian Government with respect to the 1910 loan controversy.

Respectfully yours,

Harold D. Finley

[Enclosure—Translation] The Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Leger ) to the American Chargé ( Finley ) Port-au-Prince , August 13, 1937 . Mr. Chargé d’affaires : I desire to confirm in all points the conversation which we have had this morning regarding the attitude of the Haitian Government concerning the non-official propositions which had been envisaged for the settlement of the controversy with France as to the matter of the 1910 loan. On July 19 I declared to the French Minister at Port-au-Prince that the Haitian Government could not let the existing situation be prolonged; that we thought that the moment had come for us to determine what were the intentions of the French Government; that as a consequence I asked him to be kind enough to let me know definitely whether his Government accepted or not the non-official proposals envisaged for the settlement of the 1910 matter; and whether they were or were not disposed to sign the treaty of commerce which we had negotiated. I likewise declared to the Minister of France that if his Government did not let me learn of its acceptance of the non-official propositions, the Haitian Government would consider itself divested of all moral obligations with regard to this matter, and would recover its absolute freedom of action with regard to the 1910 controversy. Monsieur de Lens asked for a delay of eight days in order to obtain a reply of his Government to this notification. As a precaution, on July 211 cabled to my Minister at Paris asking him to confirm to the Quai d’Orsay the declarations which I had made to the French Minister at Port-au-Prince. On July 23, Monsieur Chatelain replied by cable that my instructions had been executed. M. de Lens having delayed in letting me know the reply of the French Government, I declared to him, during the course of a new conversation which took place at the end of the month of July, that the Haitian Government had recovered its complete liberty of action and did not consider itself bound in any manner by the non-official proposals previously envisaged. This declaration, which was quite clear, was confirmed during the course of two other conversations which I had with M. de Lens during the first days of August with regard to certain details of the treaty of commerce which was under discussion. No doubt can exist in the mind of M. de Lens as to the attitude of the Haitian Government, and it is equally certain from these conversations that M. de Lens has transmitted to his Government the declaration which I have made to him. I am therefore able with difficulty to explain the misunderstanding which seems to exist with regard to the position taken by the Haitian Government; I am able to explain still less the declarations which have been made to the American Ambassador by Minister Chatelain and which you were good enough to bring to my attention this morning. To end this inexplicable situation, I have cabled again this morning to the Minister of Haiti at Paris, asking him to dissipate the erroneous impression brought about by the conversation which the American Ambassador had with him on the 11th of August and giving him instructions to confirm, if he judges it necessary, to the Quai d’Orsay the declarations which have already been made by the Haitian Government with regard to the 1910 controversy. Please accept [etc.] Georges N. Leger


---
## [d587] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3422: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 14, 1937—noon . [Received 2:16 p.m.]

66. My telegram No. 64, August 13, noon. Not printed. Leger sent for me this morning and said that he had received a telegram from Chatelain. The latter reported that he had been advised by the American Ambassador in Paris that Haiti had withdrawn its $500,000 offer but that he, hoping to reserve a certain freedom of action, had given the Ambassador an indefinite reply. Leger said he had again telegraphed Chatelain to make the attitude of the Haitian Government clear to the Ambassador, and pending further instructions, to refrain from further negotiations toward a modus vivendi.

Leger also said that after reflection he was a little afraid that De Lens had not fully reported the Haitian position to his Government.

Finley


---
## [d588] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3435: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , August 30, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 5:15 p.m.]

71. Leger sent for me this morning and said that he and the French Minister had now worked out a final draft of a Haitian-French commercial convention and that it could be signed at once if the Minister received instructions to do so. De Kuli informed him in answer to a direct question that he did not have explicit instructions to proceed with the drafting of the convention but that inasmuch as he expected soon to go on leave he wanted to have the draft worked out and in final form. De la Rue has the draft and is examining it.

Leger expressed some anxiety that no recent reports have been received concerning the progress made by our Paris Embassy in the 1910 matter. He asked whether I would be willing to telegraph for a report about this and, incidentally, inquire whether Under Secretary Welles, while he is in Paris, could not by reason of his intimate acquaintance with the subject do something to assist. I said I would inform the Department of his request.

Leger then said that for some reason he could not yet understand, his Minister in Paris did not seem to be absolutely clear regarding his Government’s attitude in the 1910 matter. He had received the following telegram from Chatelain on August 28: (Translation). “At the request of the American Ambassador I have promised to remain in contact with him. Yesterday morning I was called to the Quai d’Orsay where they spoke to me again regarding your offer and said that devaluation brings us more and more nearly together and that an agreement could now be reached on a basis of 840 francs in place of a thousand. They added that if things looked as though they could be arranged, I would be sent for again. I deduced from this communication that, first, the American Government has intervened; second, I would like to envisage the signature in the near future no longer of a provisional accord or a modus vivendi but of a definite treaty; third, that the Ambassador approves principle of the offer following my explanations on this subject but that the Government is bargaining still to obtain a little more than 500 francs. I have learned in the course of this conversation of the approaching arrival of the American Under Secretary of State and I see in that some connection with the communication made to me yesterday morning.”

Leger instructed Chatelain as follows on August 28: (Translation) “Referring to your cable of August 28, I confirm to you that the Haitian Government considers itself entirely free from all engagements relating to the unofficial propositions previously envisaged. I desire that there shall be no mistake on this subject neither with the French Government nor with the American Government. You will not in any case accept their proposal to enter into discussions with the Quai d’Orsay on the subject of any transaction for regulating the 1910 matter. Work in strict liaison with the American Ambassador.”

Leger handed me copies of the above exchange of cables.

Finley


---
## [d589] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3441: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 4, 1937—noon . [Received 2:45 p.m.]

73. Department’s 43, September 3, 5 p.m. Not printed. I informed Leger this morning of the contents of the first paragraph of the Department’s telegram under reference. In reply he handed me a copy of a telegram dated September 3 which he has received from Chatelain as follows (translation): “I received last evening from the Quai d’Orsay the following note: ‘In the course of the negotiations with regard to the loan of 1910 various propositions for the arrangement of this matter have been envisaged. In order to permit these negotiations to be usefully pursued, the Minister for Foreign Affairs would be grateful to the Haitian Legation if it would be kind enough to confirm by note what are actually the official propositions which the Haitian Government desires to present’. “Moreover, the American Embassy told me this noon that a decision had been made in the morning by the French Government to divorce the two questions, which decision will be communicated today to the Minister of France to Haiti in order to get ready the treaty of commerce.”

Leger remarked that while the French told the Paris Embassy that the two questions had been divorced, they apparently had said nothing of the sort to Chatelain and had even proposed to him simultaneously that the Haitian Government set forth in writing its official proposals for the settlement of the 1910 question. Before instructing Chatelain what to reply, Leger said he would be grateful if the American Ambassador in Paris following his conversation with Delbos could shed any light on this possible dissimulation. De Kuli has not yet seen Leger and the latter is unaware what instructions may have been received by him.

Draft of proposed Franco-Haitian commercial convention by tomorrow’s air mail.

Finley


---
## [d590] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3445: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 7, 1937—1 p.m. [Received 4:20 p.m.]

75. My 73, September 4, noon. Leger sent for me this morning and said that he had just terminated a conversation with the French Minister to Haiti. The latter had been instructed by his Government to say that in view of the divorce of the 1910 question from that of the commercial convention, conditions had now changed and the French Government was unwilling to proceed with the signature of the convention as it now stands. They are now willing only to take Haitian coffee to a value of twice that of Haitian imports of French products. In effect this would reduce the proposed Haitian coffee quota from 120,000 quintals to about 40,000.

Leger said he had been very angry at this further evidence of French pettiness if not duplicity; that the convention as it stands had been negotiated point by point with the approval of the Quai d’Orsay; and that 40,000 quintals is so small a quota as to be practically worthless. He would never go as far as he had in the draft convention for so insignificant a benefit. He then said that he informed De Kuli that he was leaving Haiti for the United States (see my telegram 74, September 7, noon Not printed. ) within 8 or 10 days. He was ready and willing to sign the convention as it stands before his departure. If it were so concluded within that period he would see to it that nothing further would be done about it during his absence which might be for 2 or 3 months. De Kuli promised to cable his Government today.

Finley


---
## [d591] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Haiti ( Finley )
638.5131/175a: Telegram

Washington , September 13, 1937—7 p.m.

45. In his interview with the French Chargé d’Affaires Jules Henry. this morning, Mr. Duggan outlined briefly to him the developments of the past 3 weeks as respects the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention and the 1910 loan. While the precise terms of the proposed Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention, the text of which was forwarded in your despatch no. 548 of September 4, Not printed. were not discussed, Mr. Duggan alluded to the Haitian disappointment at the proposed reduction in a new Convention of the Haitian coffee quota from 120,000 to 40,000 quintals.

Mr. Henry said that he understood fully the attitude of this Government with respect to Haiti and stated further that Bonnet Georges Bonnet, French Ambassador in the United States. on his departure had told Henry that he knew that the French official insistence on the 1910 loan had been “a source of irritation to the American Government” and that he, Bonnet, proposed to take the matter up strongly with Delbos on his return. Accordingly Henry felt that the decision of the French Government to disassociate the two questions had been to some extent influenced by Bonnet’s representations.

Mr. Henry expressed some surprise that following the decision to disassociate the two questions the French Government had instructed the Minister in Port au Prince to reduce the coffee quota in a new Convention and inferred that in this case perhaps the subordinate officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were taking action not fully in accord with the decision of Delbos. Henry said that now that he had the facts of the case, he would immediately despatch a strong telegram to Paris. He inquired whether it would be satisfactory to this Government if France should agree to sign the previously negotiated Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention. Mr. Duggan stated that that Convention apparently was satisfactory to Haiti and therefore would in general fulfill our interest in this matter, although he was not in a position to give an opinion as to this Government’s attitude with respect to the other terms of that Convention.

The Department has made a cursory examination of the trade clauses contained in the proposed Franco-Haitian Convention forwarded under your despatch no. 548. At an early opportunity you should inform the Foreign Minister that while this Government reserves the right to comment on certain provisions of this treaty as they may affect Haitian-American trade, this Government fully expects that in accordance with the Haitian-American trade agreement of March 28, 1935, Department of State Executive Agreement Series No. 78, or 49 Stat. 3737; for correspondence, see Foreign Relations , 1935, vol. iv , pp. 642 ff. American merchandise similar in nature to French merchandise mentioned in the Franco-Haitian Commercial Convention would receive treatment no less favorable than the French merchandise in question.

At the same time you may outline to the Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs our general attitude as set forth in the Department’s telegram no. 21 of June 20, 1935, 2 p.m. ibid ., p. 661 . with respect to such special demands as may be made by France for its commercial products.

Hull


---
## [d592] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
838.51/3449: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , September 14, 1937—noon . [Received 3:30 p.m.]

79. Leger sent for me this morning following a conversation which he had had with the French Minister to Haiti. De Kuli acting evidently upon instructions from Paris, presented the Haitian Government with an aide-mémoire substantially repeating what he had told Leger verbally September 4 (see my telegram 73, September 4, noon). In it the French Government states definitely that the 1910 question has been divorced from that of a new trade convention, and then proceeds to state that, in view of the changed conditions, the convention “will have to be made over again”. The offer of a quota of 40,000 quintals per annum remains and a small additional quota would be made available for any month following one wherein French imports into Haiti had exceeded 800,000 francs. Leger informed de Kuli that this proposal was entirely unsatisfactory to the Haitian Government, that he would not consider it and that unless France bought enough Haitian coffee to make the business advantageous for Haiti he would recommend the reimposition of the maximum tariff on French goods.

Leger said he was very much annoyed at this intransigent attitude of the French and that he feared that Labonne Eirik-Pierre Labonne, Adjunct Director of Political and Commercial Affairs, French Ministry for Foreign Affairs. was again directing Haitian matters at the Quai d’Orsay.

I told Leger the substance of the conversations had by the Department with Henry. He again expressed his warm appreciation of the steps the American Government had taken to aid his country and said that he was instructing Lescot who was returning to Washington shortly to tender this Government’s thanks to the Department. If eventually a satisfactory convention could be concluded with the French Government it would be only because of our assistance.

Finley


---
## [d593] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/181: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , October 11, 1937—2 p.m. [Received 2:20 p.m.]

89. President Vincent informs me that the French Minister acting apparently without instructions has suggested that the impasse in negotiations for a Franco-Haitian commercial treaty could probably be overcome by a renewal of the Haitian offer to pay the French $500,000 on account of the 1910 question. He states that he told the Minister that the two questions had been divorced. I said that while Monsieur Delbos had apparently been unable to discuss the Haitian question lately with our Embassy at Paris my unofficial information was that we were not at all convinced that an impasse had been reached and I begged him not to reconsider any payment or reunion of the two questions.

The President then said that the French Minister had come to offer him the Grand Cross of the Legion. He said he told the Minister that its presentation ought to be delayed until a satisfactory solution could be found to the commercial question.

Finley


---
## [d594] The Chargé in Haiti ( Finley ) to the Secretary of State
638.5131/182: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , October 16, 1937—9 a.m. [Received 9:30 a.m.]

91. Haitian Government has just informed me that on October 11 it instructed Chatelain to advise the Quai D’Orsay that Haiti would be willing to conclude the proposed commercial convention with France if it can be granted a quota of 100,000 instead of 120,000 quintals of coffee.

Finley
