# Papers Relating to the Foreign Relations of the United States, 1929, Volume I
Fuente: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HistoryAtState/frus/master/volumes/frus1929v01.xml
Extracción: capítulos, subcapítulos o secciones cuyo encabezado menciona Dominican/Haiti/Hayti/Santo Domingo/Trujillo/Port-au-Prince/Dajabón/Massacre River, más documentos sueltos con dos o más menciones.


---
## [d34] The Chargé in Switzerland ( Moffat ) to the Secretary of State
500.C114/938

Berne , December 16, 1929 . [Received January 3, 1930.] No. 1220 L. of N. No. 1570

Sir : I have the honor to transmit herewith copy of a note addressed to me by the Secretary General of the League of Nations on December 14, 1929, Not printed. (3c/16264/279) acknowledging the receipt of a note which I addressed to Sir Eric Drummond in pursuance of the Department’s telegraphic instruction No. 133, December 2, 11 a.m., on the occasion of signing the three Protocols relating to the Permanent Court of International Justice.

I likewise transmit the three enclosures to Sir Eric’s note, namely, certified true copies of: The Protocol of Signature of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, Geneva, December 16, 1920; For texts of the protocol of signature, the optional clause, and the statute of the Court, see Foreign Relations , 1920, vol. i , pp. 17 and 18 . The Protocol concerning the revision of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, Geneva, September 14, 1929, and The Protocol relating to the accession of the United States of America to the Protocol of Signature of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, Geneva, September 14, 1929.

I feel that I should call the attention of the Department to the fact that whereas in the certified true copy of the Protocol of Signature the listing of countries is alphabetical according to French spelling, placing the United States in the third position, in reality my signature appeared last, the order of signing at least among the later signatories being one of chronology. In view of the special provision found in the Preamble that “the said Protocol shall remain open for signature by the Members of the League of Nations and by the States mentioned in the Annex to the Covenant of the League”, the order may not prove important, but I feel that the rearrangement of signatures should not pass without comment. In the cases of the Protocol of Revision and of the Protocol of American Accession, on the other hand, all signatures were affixed according to French alphabetic listing, as appears in the certified true copies.

I have [etc.]

Pierrepont Moffat

[Enclosure 1] Protocol for the Revision of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, Signed at Geneva, September 1929 1. The undersigned, duly authorised, agree, on behalf of the Governments which they represent, to make in the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice the amendments which are set out in the Annex to the present Protocol and which form the subject of the resolution of the Assembly of the League of Nations of September 14th, 1929. 2. The present Protocol, of which the French and English texts are both authentic, shall be presented for signature to all the signatories of the Protocol of December 16th, 1920, to which the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice is annexed, and to the United States of America. 3. The present Protocol shall be ratified. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited, if possible before September 1st, 1930, with the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, who shall inform the Members of the League of Nations and the States mentioned in the Annex to the Covenant. 4. The present Protocol shall enter into force on September 1st, 1930, provided that the Council of the League of Nations has satisfied itself that those Members of the League of Nations and States mentioned in the Annex to the Covenant which have ratified the Protocol of December 16th, 1920, and whose ratification of the present Protocol has not been received by that date, have no objection to the coming into force of the amendments to the Statute of the Court which are annexed to the present Protocol. 5. After the entry into force of the present Protocol, the new provisions shall form part of the Statute adopted in 1920 and the provisions of the original articles which have been made the subject of amendment shall be abrogated. It is understood that, until January 1st, 1931, the Court shall continue to perform its functions in accordance with the Statute of 1920. 6. After the entry into force of the present Protocol any acceptance of the Statute of the Court shall constitute an acceptance of the Statute as amended. 7. For the purposes of the present Protocol, the United States of America shall be in the same position as a State which has ratified the Protocol of December 16th, 1920. Done at Geneva, the fourteenth day of September nineteen hundred and twenty-nine, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the League of Nations. The Secretary-General shall deliver authenticated copies to the Members of the League of Nations and to the States mentioned in the Annex to the Covenant. Union of South Africa Eric H. Louw Germany Fr. Gaus United States of America Jay Pierrepont Moffat Australia W. Harrison Moore Austria Dʳ Marcus Leitmaier Belgium Henri Rolin Bolivia A. Cortadellas Brazil M. de Pimentel Brandao Great Britain and Northern Ireland and all Parts of the British Empire which are not separate Members of the League of Nations. Arthur Henderson Bulgaria Vladimir Molloff Canada R. Dandurand Chile Luis V. de Porto-Seguro China Chao-Chu Wu Colombia Francisco José Urrutia Denmark Georg Cohn Dominican Republic M. L. Vasquez G. Spain C. Botella Estonia A. Schmidt Finland A. S. Yrjö-Koskinen France Henri Fromageot Greece Politis Guatemala Luis V. de Porto-Seguro Haiti Luc Dominique Hungary Ladislas Gajzago India Md. Habibullah Irish Free State John A. Costello Italy Vittorio Scialoja Japan Isaburo Yoshida Latvia Charles Duzmans. Liberia A. Sottile Luxemburg Bech Nicaragua Francisco Torres F. Norway Arnold Raestad New Zealand C. J. Parr Panama J. D. Arosemena Paraguay R. V. Caballero de Bedoya The Netherlands V. Eysinga Peru Mar. H. Cornejo Persia P. P. Kitabgi Poland M. Rostworowski S. Rundstein Portugal Prof. Doutor J. Lobo d’Avila Lima Roumania Antoniade Salvador J. Gustavo Guerrero Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes I. Choumenkovitch Siam Varnvaidya Sweden E. Marks von Würtemberg Switzerland Motta Czechoslovakia Zd. Fierlinger Uruguay A. Guani Venezuela C. Zumeta Annex to the Protocol of September 14, 1929 amendments to the statute of the permanent court of international justice Articles 3, 4, 8, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 23, 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 32 and 35 are replaced by the following provisions: New text of Article 3. The Court shall consist of fifteen members. New text of Article 4. The members of the Court shall be elected by the Assembly and by the Council from a list of persons nominated by the national groups in the Court of Arbitration, in accordance with the following provisions. In the case of Members of the League of Nations not represented in the Permanent Court of Arbitration, the lists of candidates shall be drawn up by national groups appointed for this purpose by their Governments under the same conditions as those prescribed for members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration by Article 44 of the Convention of the Hague of 1907 for the pacific settlement of international disputes. The conditions under which a State which has accepted the Statute of the Court but is not a member of the League of Nations, may participate in electing the members of the Court shall, in the absence of a special agreement, be laid down by the Assembly on the proposal of the Council. New text of Article 8. The Assembly and the Council shall proceed independently of one another to elect the members of the Court. New text of Article 13. The members of the Court shall be elected for nine years. They may be re-elected. They shall continue to discharge their duties until their places have been filled. Though replaced, they shall finish any cases which they may have begun. In the case of the resignation of a member of the Court, the resignation will be addressed to the President of the Court for transmission to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations. This last notification makes the place vacant. New text of Article 14. Vacancies which may occur shall be filled by the same method as that laid down for the first election, subject to the following provision: the Secretary-General of the League of Nations shall, within one month of the occurrence of the vacancy, proceed to issue the invitations provided for in Article 5, and the date of the election shall be fixed by the Council at its next session. New text of Article 15. A member of the Court elected to replace a member whose period of appointment has not expired, will hold the appointment for the remainder of his predecessor’s term. New text of Article 16. The members of the Court may not exercise any political or administrative function, nor engage in any other occupation of a professional nature. Any doubt on this point is settled by the decision of the Court. New text of Article 17. No member of the Court may act as agent, counsel or advocate in any case. No member may participate in the decision of any case in which he has previously taken an active part as agent, counsel or advocate for one of the contesting parties, or as a member of a national or international Court, or of a commission of enquiry, or in any other capacity. Any doubt on this point is settled by the decision of the Court. New text of Article 23. The Court shall remain permanently in session except during the judicial vacations, the dates and duration of which shall be fixed by the Court. Members of the Court whose homes are situated at more than five days’ normal journey from The Hague shall be entitled, apart from the judicial vacations, to six months’ leave every three years, not including the time spent in travelling. Members of the Court shall be bound, unless they are on regular leave or prevented from attending by illness or other serious reason duly explained to the President, to hold themselves permanently at the disposal of the Court. New text of Article 25. The full Court shall sit except when it is expressly provided otherwise. Subject to the condition that the number of judges available to constitute the Court is not thereby reduced below eleven, the Rules of Court may provide for allowing one or more judges, according to circumstances and in rotation, to be dispensed from sitting. Provided always that a quorum of nine judges shall suffice to constitute the Court. New text of Article 26. Labour cases, particularly cases referred to in Part XIII (Labour) of the Treaty of Versailles and the corresponding portions of the other Treaties of Peace, shall be heard and determined by the Court under the following conditions. The Court will appoint every three years a special Chamber of five judges, selected so far as possible with due regard to the provisions of Article 9. In addition, two judges shall be selected for the purpose of replacing a judge who finds it impossible to sit. If the parties so demand, cases will be heard and determined by this Chamber. In the absence of any such demand, the full Court will sit. In both cases, the judges will be assisted by four technical assessors sitting with them, but without the right to vote, and chosen with a view to ensuring a just representation of the competing interests. The technical assessors shall be chosen for each particular case in accordance with rules of procedure under Article 30 from a list of “Assessors for Labour Cases” composed of two persons nominated by each Member of the League of Nations and an equivalent number nominated by the Governing Body of the Labour Office. The Governing Body will nominate, as to one-half, representatives of the workers, and, as to one-half, representatives of employers from the list referred to in Article 412 of the Treaty of Versailles and the corresponding Articles of the other Treaties of Peace. Recourse may always be had to the summary procedure provided for in Article 29, in the cases referred to in the first paragraph of the present Article, if the parties so request. In Labour cases, the International Office shall be at liberty to furnish the Court with all relevant information, and for this purpose the Director of that Office shall receive copies of all the written proceedings. New text of Article 27. Cases relating to transit and communications, particularly cases referred to in Part XII (Ports, Waterways and Railways) of the Treaty of Versailles and the corresponding portions of the other Treaties of Peace, shall be heard and determined by the Court under the following conditions: The Court will appoint every three years a special Chamber of five judges, selected so far as possible with due regard to the provisions of Article 9. In addition, two judges shall be selected for the purpose of replacing a judge who finds it impossible to sit. If the parties so demand, cases will be heard and determined by this Chamber. In the absence of any such demand, the full Court will sit. When desired by the parties or decided by the Court, the judges will be assisted by four technical assessors sitting with them, but without the right to vote. The technical assessors shall be chosen for each particular case in accordance with rules of procedure under Article 30 from a list of “Assessors for Transit and Communications Cases” composed of two persons nominated by each Member of the League of Nations. Recourse may always be had to the summary procedure provided for in Article 29, in the cases referred to in the first paragraph of the present Article, if the parties so request. New text of Article 29. With a view to the speedy despatch of business, the Court shall form annually a Chamber composed of five judges who, at the request of the contesting parties, may hear and determine cases by summary procedure. In addition, two judges shall be selected for the purpose of replacing a judge who finds it impossible to sit. New text of Article 31. Judges of the nationality of each of the contesting parties shall retain their right to sit in the case before the Court. If the Court includes upon the Bench a judge of the nationality of one of the parties, the other party may choose a person to sit as judge. Such person shall be chosen preferably from among those persons who have been nominated as candidates as provided in Articles 4 and 5. If the Court includes upon the Bench no judge of the nationality of the contesting parties, each of these parties may proceed to select a judge as provided in the preceding paragraph. The present provision shall apply to the case of Articles 26, 27 and 29. In such cases, the President shall request one or, if necessary, two of the members of the Court forming the Chamber to give place to the members of the Court of the nationality of the parties concerned, and, failing such or if they are unable to be present, to the judges specially appointed by the parties. Should there be several parties in the same interest, they shall, for the purpose of the preceding provisions, be reckoned as one party only. Any doubt upon this point is settled by the decision of the Court. Judges selected as laid down in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article shall fulfil the conditions required by Articles 2, 17 (paragraph 2), 20 and 24 of this Statute. They shall take part in the decision on terms of complete equality with their colleagues. New text of Article 32. The members of the Court shall receive an annual salary. The President shall receive a special annual allowance. The Vice-President shall receive a special allowance for every day on which he acts as President. The judges appointed under Article 31, other than members of the Court, shall receive an indemnity for each day on which they sit. These salaries, allowances and indemnities shall be fixed by the Assembly of the League of Nations on the proposal of the Council. They may not be decreased during the term of office. The salary of the Registrar shall be fixed by the Assembly on the proposal of the Court. Regulations made by the Assembly shall fix the conditions under which retiring pensions may be given to members of the Court and to the Registrar, and the conditions under which members of the Court and the Registrar shall have their travelling expenses refunded. The above salaries, indemnities and allowances shall be free of all taxation. New text of Article 35. The Court shall be open to the Members of the League and also to States mentioned in the Annex to the Covenant. The conditions under which the Court shall be open to other States shall, subject to the special provisions contained in treaties in force, be laid down by the Council, but in no case shall such provisions place the parties in a position of inequality before the Court. When a State which is not a Member of the League of Nations is a party to a dispute, the Court will fix the amount which that party is to contribute towards the expenses of the Court. This provision shall not apply if such State is bearing a share of the expenses of the Court. The French text of Article 38, No. 4, is replaced by the following provision: 4. Sous réserve de la disposition de Particle 59, les décisions judiciaires et la doctrine des publicistes les plus qualifies des différentes nations, comme moyen auxiliaire de détermination des règles de droit. [There is no change in the English text.] Articles 39 and 40 are replaced by the following provisions: New text of Article 39. The official languages of the Court shall be French and English. If the parties agree that the case shall be conducted in French, the judgment will be delivered in French. If the parties agree that the case shall be conducted in English, the judgment will be delivered in English. In the absence of an agreement as to which language shall be employed, each party may, in the pleadings, use the language which it prefers; the decision of the Court will be given in French and English. In this case the Court will at the same time determine which of the two texts shall be considered as authoritative. The Court may, at the request of any party, authorise a language other than French or English to be used. New text of Article 40. Cases are brought before the Court, as the case may be, either by the notification of the special agreement or by a written application addressed to the Registrar. In either case the subject of the dispute and the contesting parties must be indicated. The Registrar shall forthwith communicate the application to all concerned. He shall also notify the Members of the League of Nations through the Secretary-General, and also any States entitled to appear before the Court. The English text of Article 45 is replaced by the following provision: The hearing shall be under the control of the President or, if he is unable to preside, of the Vice-President; if neither is able to preside, the senior judge present shall preside. [There is no change in the French text.] The following new chapter is added to the Statute of the Court: Chapter IV.—Advisory Opinions New Article 65. Questions upon which the advisory opinion of the Court is asked shall be laid before the Court by means of a written request, signed either by the President of the Assembly or the President of the Council of the League of Nations, or by the Secretary-General of the League under instructions from the Assembly or the Council. The request shall contain an exact statement of the question upon which an opinion is required, and shall be accompanied by all documents likely to throw light upon the question. New Article 66. 1. The Registrar shall forthwith give notice of the request for an advisory opinion to the Members of the League of Nations, through the Secretary-General of the League, and to any States entitled to appear before the Court. The Registrar shall also, by means of a special and direct communication, notify any Member of the League or State admitted to appear before the Court or international organisation considered by the Court (or, should it not be sitting, by the President) as likely to be able to furnish information on the question, that the Court will be prepared to receive, within a time-limit to be fixed by the President, written statements, or to hear, at a public sitting to be held for the purpose, oral statements relating to the question. Should any Member or State referred to in the first paragraph have failed to receive the communication specified above, such Member or State may express a desire to submit a written statement, or to be heard; and the Court will decide. 2. Members, States, and organisations having presented written or oral statements or both shall be admitted to comment on the statements made by other Members, States, or organisations in the form, to the extent and within the time-limits which the Court, or, should it not be sitting, the President, shall decide in each particular case. Accordingly, the Registrar shall in due time communicate any such written statements to Members, States, and organisations having submitted similar statements. New Article 67, The Court shall deliver its advisory opinions in open Court, notice having been given to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations and to the representatives of Members of the League, of States and of international organisations immediately concerned. New Article 68. In the exercise of its advisory functions, the Court shall further be guided by the provisions of the Statute which apply in contentious cases to the extent to which it recognises them to be applicable.

[Enclosure 2] Protocol of Accession of the United States of America to the Protocol of Signature of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, Signed at Geneva, September 14, 1929 The States signatories of the Protocol of Signature of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice, dated December 16th, 1920, and the United States of America, through the undersigned duly authorised representatives, have mutually agreed upon the following provisions regarding the adherence of the United States of America to the said Protocol subject to the five reservations formulated by the United States in the resolution adopted by the Senate on January 27th, 1926. Article 1 The States signatories of the said Protocol accept the special conditions attached by the United States in the five reservations mentioned above to its adherence to the said Protocol upon the terms and conditions set out in the following Articles. Article 2 The United States shall be admitted to participate, through representatives designated for the purpose and upon an equality with the signatory States Members of the League of Nations represented in the Council or in the Assembly, in any and all proceedings of either the Council or the Assembly for the election of judges or deputy-judges of the Permanent Court of International Justice, provided for in the Statute of the Court. The vote of the United States shall be counted in determining the absolute majority of votes required by the Statute. Article 3 No amendment of the Statute of the Court may be made without the consent of all the Contracting States. Article 4 The Court shall render advisory opinions in public session after notice and opportunity for hearing substantially as provided in the now existing Articles 73 and 74 of the Rules of Court. Article 5 With a view to ensuring that the Court shall not, without the consent of the United States, entertain any request for an advisory opinion touching any dispute or question in which the United States has or claims an interest, the Secretary-General of the League of Nations shall, through any channel designated for that purpose by the United States, inform the United States of any proposal before the Council or the Assembly of the League for obtaining an advisory opinion from the Court, and thereupon, if desired, an exchange of views as to whether an interest of the United States is affected shall proceed with all convenient speed between the Council or Assembly of the League and the United States. Whenever a request for an advisory opinion comes to the Court, the Registrar shall notify the United States thereof, among other States mentioned in the now existing Article 73 of the Rules of Court, stating a reasonable time-limit fixed by the President within which a written statement by the United States concerning the request will be received. If for any reason no sufficient opportunity for an exchange of views upon such request should have been afforded and the United States advises the Court that the question upon which the opinion, of the Court is asked is one that affects the interests of the United States, proceedings shall be stayed for a period sufficient to enable such an exchange of views between the Council or the Assembly and the United States to take place. With regard to requesting an advisory opinion of the Court in any case covered by the preceding paragraphs, there shall be attributed to an objection of the United States the same force and effect as attaches to a vote against asking for the opinion given by a Member of the League of Nations in the Councilor in the Assembly. If, after the exchange of views provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, it shall appear that no agreement can be reached and the United States is not prepared to forgo its objection, the exercise of the powers of withdrawal provided for in Article 8 hereof will follow naturally without any imputation of unfriendliness or unwillingness to co-operate generally for peace and goodwill. Article 6 Subject to the provisions of Article 8 below, the provisions of the present Protocol shall have the same force and effect as the provisions of the Statute of the Court and any future signature of the Protocol of December 16th, 1920, shall be deemed to be an acceptance of the provisions of the present Protocol. Article 7 The present Protocol shall be ratified. Each State shall forward the instrument of ratification to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, who shall inform all the other signatory States. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the League of Nations. The present Protocol shall come into force as soon as all States which have ratified the Protocol of December 16th, 1920, and also the United States, have deposited their ratifications. Article 8 The United States may at any time notify the Secretary-General of the League of Nations that it withdraws its adherence to the Protocol of December 16th, 1920. The Secretary-General shall immediately communicate this notification to all the other States signatories of the Protocol. In such case, the present Protocol shall cease to be in force as from the receipt by the Secretary-General of the notification by the United States. On their part, each of the other Contracting States may at any time notify the Secretary-General of the League of Nations that it desires to withdraw its acceptance of the special conditions attached by the United States to its adherence to the Protocol of December 16th, 1920. The Secretary-General shall immediately give communication of this notification to each of the States signatories of the present Protocol. The present Protocol shall be considered as ceasing to be in force if and when, within one year from the date of receipt of the said notification, not less than two-thirds of the Contracting States other than the United States shall have notified the Secretary-General of the League of Nations that they desire to withdraw the above-mentioned acceptance. Done at Geneva, the fourteenth day of September, nineteen hundred and twenty-nine, in a single copy, of which the French and English texts shall both be authoritative. Union of South Africa Eric H. Louw Germany Fr. Gaus United States of America Jay Pierrepont Moffat Australia W. Harrison Moore Austria Dʳ. Marcus Leitmaier Belgium Henri Rolin Bolivia A. Cortadellas Brazil M. de Pimentel Brandao Great Britain and Northern Ireland and all Parts of the British Empire which are not separate Members of the League of Nations. Arthur Henderson Bulgaria Vladimir Molloff Canada R. Dandurand Chile Luis V. de Porto-Seguro China Chao-Chu Wu Colombia Francisco José Urrutia Cuba G. de Blanck Denmark Georg Cohn Dominican Republic M. L. Vasquez G. Spain C. Botella Estonia A. Schmidt Finland A. S. Yrjö-Koskinen France Henri Fromageot Greece Politis Guatemala F. Mora Haiti Luc Dominique Hungary Ladislas Gajzago India Md. Habibullah Irish Free State John A. Costello Italy Vittorio Scialoja Japan Isaburo Yoshida Latvia Charles Duzmans Liberia A. Sottile Luxemburg Bech Nicaragua Francisco Torres F. Norway Arnold Raestad New Zealand C. J. Parr Panama J. D. Arosemena Paraguay R. V. Caballero de Bedoya The Netherlands V. Eysinga Peru Mar. H. Cornejo Persia P. P. Kitabgi Poland M. Rostworowski S. Rundstein Portugal Prof. Doutor J. Lobo d’Avila Lima Roumania Antoniade Salvador J. Gustavo Guerrero Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes I. Choumenkovitch Siam Varnvaidya Sweden E. Marks von Würtemberg Switzerland Motta Czechoslovakia Zd. Fierlinger Uruguay A. Guani Venezuela C. Zumeta


---
## [d243] The Chargé in France ( Armour ) to the Secretary of State
511.1D1/49: Telegram

[Paraphrase]

Paris , November 7, 1929—1 p.m. [Received 3:30 p.m.]

515. From Gordon. Haitian delegate to the Conference, who is brother of Haitian Minister to France now home on leave of absence, has stated to me that first point under article 18 of the draft convention gave him concern. Point 1 of article 18 after providing for the granting by any high contracting party, under certain limitations, of more favorable conditions to one or more of the other high contracting parties under the terms of special agreements, continues to read as follows: “These more favourable conditions may be claimed on condition of reciprocal treatment by any High Contracting Party not enjoying the benefits of the most-favoured-nation clause under a bilateral agreement and therefore unable to claim the free benefit thereof on that account.” If the United States should ever become a party to this convention, he said, then France, for instance, could demand of Haiti under this article by a grant of reciprocal agreement (which might only be nominal and sterile) the same treatment which Haiti extends to us, and this he felt would not be to the best interest of either Haiti or ourselves. He hoped that my views met his and that I would express an opinion unfavorable to this clause which he might thereupon quote to his Government and advise the latter to authorize him to refuse to accept this provision.

In reply to the delegate I observed that the point he raised could not have any immediate application as long as the United States did not become a party to the convention. He then said that he wished to consider all possible eventualities before he agreed to any provisions which held such dangerous possibilities.

The question raised by the Haitian delegate is doubtless of interest to the Department, as the same considerations might arise with respect to our relations with certain other countries. It is my belief that the delegates to this Conference from the countries I have in mind are considering this question (the Haitian delegate has already spoken to his colleagues at the Conference from Panama and the Dominican Republic), so I should appreciate receiving an instruction regarding Department’s views to guide me in any future conversations I may have with such delegates. If Department should feel inclined to set forth its views in some detail, I think that an instruction by mail, if it were sent off by end of this week, would reach me probably in sufficient time. [Gordon.]

Armour


---
## [d247] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in France ( Armour )
511.1D1/55: Telegram

Washington , November 20, 1929—6 p.m.

381. Your 515, November 7, 1 p.m. As a matter of policy the Department does not seek for its nationals in foreign countries commercial privileges any more favorable than those countries accord or may be willing to accord to nationals of other countries. Department would not therefore wish to comment unfavorably upon Article 18 point one since we claim no exclusive or preferential rights in Haiti or in any other country except perhaps Cuba, where by reciprocal treaty arrangement customs preferences are received. Department feels that you should explain to the Haitian delegate for his own information that in the light of the above, you regret that you are not in a position to express an opinion on the article in question.

Stimson


---
## [d323] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Honduras ( Summerlin ) Similar instructions were sent to the diplomatic missions in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. On July 23 mail instructions similar to the above were sent to the Consulates at Belize, Curaçao, Georgetown, and Nassau. A similar telegram dated July 23, noon, was sent to the Vice Consul at Port-of-Spain, Trinidad.
810.71211/5: Telegram

Washington , July 12, 1929—6 p.m.

51. This Government considers it very important that the United States mails should be carried to the Latin American countries by air mail by American companies. You will therefore please support in every proper way American companies which have been awarded contracts by the United States Post Office Department to obtain privileges necessary for carrying mails to Cuba in accordance with contracts with the United States Post Office Department.

The Post Office Department has given the Department a list of the air mail routes into Latin America and has stated that “in rendering diplomatic assistance where concessions are involved to carry out the contracts for service on the above routes or extensions thereof, it is desired, of course, that our contractors be given preference.” The following is the route which affects Honduras:

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Stimson


---
## [d456] The Liaison Officer of the Department of Commerce ( Stevenson ) to the Assistant Secretary of State ( Carr )
810.79611 Tri-Motors Safety Airways/5

Washington , April 27, 1929 .

Dear Mr. Carr : This is to confirm a request addressed to Mr. Thaw, of the Latin American Division, Department of State by Mr. York of our Aeronautics and Communications Section, on behalf of Captain Ralph A. O’Neill, Vice President and General Manager of the New York, Rio and Buenos Aires Line Inc., a division of the Trimotor Safety Airways Inc., 929 Graybar Building, Lexington Avenue and 43rd Street, New York City.

It is requested that the Department of State ask of the Cuban, Haitian, Dominican, French, British, Venezuelan, Netherland, Brazilian, Uruguayan and Argentine Governments temporary permission for three Sikorsky airplanes of the subject company to carry out survey flights over a route between New York and Buenos Aires. The stopping points were given to Mr. Thaw. The flights are to start about May 15 next.

As is known to the Department of State, the American company has obtained permission by a contract with the Argentine Government to establish an air mail line between Buenos Aires and New York, and to carry a fixed percentage of Argentine mail destined for certain countries. The company is making progress in the other countries concerned, and the proposed flights are intended for the purposes of making the necessary surveys to fix the actual route over which the line will operate and determine the places for lighting facilities, fuel and repair part stores and operating bases.

It is hoped that the Department of State will soon receive favorable replies from the governments concerned.

All cable charges in connection with this inquiry should be charged to the interested company whose spokesman authorized this arrangement in his letter to the Department of Commerce, dated April 25, 1929.

Very truly yours,

Perry J. Stevenson


---
## [d457] The Secretary of State to the Ambassador in Cuba ( Judah ) The same, mutatis mutandis , on the same date to the diplomatic representatives in Argentina (No. 35), Dominican Republic (No. 10), Haiti (No. 22), Uruguay (No. 8), and Venezuela (No. 13). Similar telegrams were sent to the diplomatic representatives in Brazil (No. 14); France (No. 128), with respect to Guadeloupe, Martinique, and French Guiana; Great Britain (No. 104), with respect to Trinidad and British Guiana; and the Netherlands (No. 11), with respect to Dutch Guiana. (Tri-Motors Safety Airways/6, 7, 8, 9.)
810.79611 Tri-Motors Safety Airways/10: Telegram

Washington , April 30, 1929—2 p.m.

39. Please request temporary permission, also free entry contingent upon reexportation, for three Sikorsky airplanes belonging to New York, Rio and Buenos Aires Line, Incorporated, which is a subsidiary of Trimotor Safety Airways, Incorporated, to fly over and land in Cuba on air mail survey flights beginning about May 15. Please expedite reply.

Stimson


---
## [d458] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Tri-Motors Safety Airways/11: Telegram

Santo Domingo , May 2, 1929—noon . [Received 4:35 p.m.]

30. Department’s April 30, 2 p.m. See footnote 55. Permission granted as requested.

Young


---
## [d459] The Chargé in Haiti ( Grummon ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Tri-Motors Safety Airways/16: Telegram

Port-au-Prince , May 6, 1929—noon . [Received 2:35 p.m.]

29. Department’s 22, April 30, 2 p.m. See footnote 55. Foreign Office has granted permission landing and free entry subject to reexportation for three amphibian planes. On account of contract with Pan American Airways no other commercial planes may use Port-au-Prince landing field, part of which belongs to the above company. However suitable landing place is available in the harbor north of long wharf.

Grummon


---
## [d484] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in Cuba ( Reed ) The same, mutatis mutandis , on the same date to the diplomatic representatives in Haiti; France, with respect to Guadeloupe, Martinique, and French Guiana; Great Britain, with respect to British Guiana, Dominica, and Trinidad; and the Netherlands, with respect to Dutch Guiana. Favorable replies were received by cable from the diplomatic representatives in Cuba (No. 97, September 24), Haiti (No. 71, October 4), and the Netherlands (No. 133, October 10). For attitude of the French Government, see telegram No. 449, September 25, 2 p.m., from the Chargé in France, infra.
810.79611 Tri-Motors Safety Airways/120: Circular telegram

Washington , September 18, 1929—4 p.m.

Please request permission, also free entry, contingent upon reexportation for six Sikorsky airplanes and four Commodore airplanes belonging to New York, Rio and Buenos Aires Lines, Incorporated, a subsidiary of Tri-Motors Safety Airways, to fly over and land in Cuba. Please expedite reply.

Stimson


---
## [d511] General Convention of Inter-American Conciliation, Signed at Washington, January 5, 1929 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text only printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, February 20 (legislative day of February 15), 1929; ratified by the President, February 26, 1929; ratification of the United States deposited with the Government of Chile, March 27, 1929; proclaimed by the President, April 4, 1929.
Treaty Series No. 780

The Governments of Venezuela, Chile, Bolivia, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Perú, Honduras, Guatemala, Haiti, Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Panamá, Paraguay, Nicaragua, Mexico, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and the United States of America, represented at the Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration, assembled at Washington, pursuant to the Resolution adopted on February 18, 1928, by the Sixth International Conference of American States held in the City of Habana:

Desiring to demonstrate that the condemnation of war as an instrument of national policy in their mutual relations, set forth in the above mentioned resolution, constitutes one of the fundamental bases of inter-American relations;

Animated by the purpose of promoting, in every possible way, the development of international methods for the pacific settlement of differences between the States;

Being convinced that the “Treaty to Avoid or Prevent Conflicts between the American States”, signed at Santiago de Chile, May 3, 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 308 . constitutes a notable achievement in inter-American relations, which it is necessary to maintain by giving additional prestige and strength to the action of the commissions established by Articles III and IV of the aforementioned treaty;

Acknowledging the need of giving conventional form to these purposes have agreed to enter into the present Convention, for which purpose they have appointed Plenipotentiaries as follows: Venezuela: Carlos F. Grisanti. Francisco Arroyo Parejo. Chile: Manuel Foster Recabarren. Antonio Planet. Bolivia: Eduardo Diez de Medina. Uruguay: José Pedro Varela. Costa Rica: Manuel Castro Quesada. José Tible-Machado. Perú: Hernán Velarde. Victor M. Maúrtua. Honduras: Rómulo Durón. Marcos López Ponce. Guatemala: Adrián Recinos. José Falla. Haiti: Auguste Bonamy. Raoul Lizaire. Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide. Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera. Carlos Escallón. Brazil: S. Gurgel do Amaral. A. G. de Araujo-Jorge. Panamá: Ricardo J. Alfaro. Carlos L. López. Paraguay: Eligio Ayala. Nicaragua: Máximo H. Zepeda. Adrián Recinos. J. Lisandro Medina. México: Fernando González Roa. Benito Flores. El Salvador: Cayetano Ochoa. David Rosales, Jr. Dominican Republic: Angel Morales. Gustavo A. Díaz. Cuba: Orestes Ferrara. Gustavo Gutiérrez. United States of America: Frank B. Kellogg. Charles Evans Hughes.

Who, after having deposited their full powers, which were found to be in good and due form by the Conference, have agreed as follows:

Article 1

The High Contracting Parties agree to submit to the procedure of conciliation established by this convention all controversies of any kind which have arisen or may arise between them for any reason and which it may not have been possible to settle through diplomatic channels.

Article 2

The Commission of Inquiry to be established pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Treaty signed in Santiago de Chile on May 3, 1923, shall likewise have the character of Commission of Conciliation.

Article 3

The Permanent Commissions which have been established by virtue of Article III of the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923, shall be bound to exercise conciliatory functions, either on their own motion when it appears that there is a prospect of disturbance of peaceful relations, or at the request of a Party to the dispute, until the Commission referred to in the preceding article is organized.

Article 4

The conciliatory functions of the Commission described in Article 2 shall be exercised on the occasions hereinafter set forth: (1) The Commission shall be at liberty to begin its work with an effort to conciliate the differences submitted to its examination with a view to arriving at a settlement between the Parties. (2) Likewise the same Commission shall be at liberty to endeavor to conciliate the Parties at any time which in the opinion of the Commission may be considered to be favorable in the course of the investigation and within the period of time fixed therefor in Article V of the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923. (3) Finally, the Commission shall be bound to carry out its conciliatory function within the period of six months which is referred to in Article VII of the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923.

The Parties to the controversy may, however, extend this time, if they so agree and notify the Commission in due time.

Article 5

The present convention does not preclude the High Contracting Parties, or one or more of them, from tendering their good offices or their mediation, jointly or severally, on their own motion or at the request of one or more of the Parties to the controversy; but the High Contracting Parties agree not to make use of those means of pacific settlement from the moment that the Commission described in Article 2 is organized until the final act referred to in Article 11 of this convention is signed.

Article 6

The function of the Commission, as an organ of conciliation, in all cases specified in Article 2 of this convention, is to procure the conciliation of the differences subject to its examination by endeavoring to effect a settlement between the Parties.

When the Commission finds itself to be within the case foreseen in paragraph 3 of Article 4 of this convention, it shall undertake a conscientious and impartial examination of the questions which are the subject of the controversy, shall set forth in a report the results of its proceedings, and shall propose to the Parties the bases of a settlement for the equitable solution of the controversy.

Article 7

Except when the Parties agree otherwise, the decisions and recommendations of any Commission of Conciliation shall be made by a majority vote.

Article 8

The Commission described in Article 2 of this convention shall establish its rules of procedure. In the absence of agreement to the contrary, the procedure indicated in Article IV of the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923, shall be followed.

Each party shall bear its own expenses and a proportionate share of the general expenses of the Commission.

Article 9

The report and the recommendations of the Commission, insofar as it may be acting as an organ of conciliation, shall not have the character of a decision nor an arbitral award, and shall not be binding on the Parties either as regards the exposition or interpretation of the facts or as regards questions of law.

Article 10

As soon as possible after the termination of its labors the Commission shall transmit to the Parties a certified copy of the report and of the bases of settlement which it may propose.

The Commission in transmitting the report and the recommendations to the Parties shall fix a period of time, which shall not exceed six months, within which the Parties shall pass upon the bases of settlement above referred to.

Article 11

Once the period of time fixed by the Commission for the Parties to make their decisions has expired, the Commission shall set forth in a final act the decision of the Parties, and if the conciliation has been effected, the terms of the settlement.

Article 12

The obligations set forth in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Article I of the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923, shall extend to the time when the final act referred to in the preceding article is signed.

Article 13

Once the procedure of conciliation is under way it shall be interrupted only by a direct settlement between the Parties or by their agreement to accept absolutely the decision ex aequo et bono of an American Chief of State or to submit the controversy to arbitration or to an international court.

Article 14

Whenever for any reason the Treaty of Santiago de Chile of May 3, 1923, does not apply, the Commission referred to in Article 2 of this convention shall be organized to the end that it may exercise the conciliatory functions stipulated in this convention; the Commission shall be organized in the game manner as that prescribed in Article IV of said treaty.

In such cases, the Commission thus organized shall be governed in its operation by the provisions, relative to conciliation, of this convention.

Article 15

The provisions of the preceding article shall also apply with regard to the Permanent Commissions constituted by the aforementioned Treaty of Santiago de Chile, to the end that said Commissions may exercise the conciliatory functions prescribed in Article 3 of this convention.

Article 16

The present convention shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties in conformity with their respective constitutional procedures, provided that they have previously ratified the Treaty of Santiago, Chile, of May 3, 1923.

The original convention and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Chile which shall give notice of the ratifications through diplomatic channels to the other signatory Governments and the convention shall enter into effect for the High Contracting Parties in the order that they deposit their ratifications.

This convention shall remain in force indefinitely, but it may be denounced by means of notice given one year in advance at the expiration of which it shall cease to be in force as regards the Party denouncing the same, but shall remain in force as regards the other signatories. Notice of the denunciation shall be addressed to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Chile which will transmit it for appropriate action to the other signatory Governments.

Any American State not a signatory of this convention may adhere to the same by transmitting the official instrument setting forth such adherence, to the Ministry for Foreign Affair of the Republic of Chile which will notify the other High Contracting Parties thereof in the manner heretofore mentioned.

In witness whereof the above mentioned Plenipotentiaries have signed this convention in English, Spanish, Portugese and French and hereunto affix their respective seals.

Done at the city of Washington , on this fifth day of January, 1929 . [ seal ] Carlos F. Grisanti Fr. Arroyo Parejo Chile makes exception in this convention of questions which may arise from situations or acts prior thereto. A. Planet [ seal ] Manuel Foster [ seal ] E. Diez de Medina [ seal ] José Pedro Varela [ seal ] Manuel Castro Quesada [ seal ] José Tible-Machado Hernán Velarde [ seal ] Victor M. Maúrtua [ seal ] Rómulo E. Durón [ seal ] M. López Ponce [ seal ] Adrián Recinos [ seal ] José Falla [ seal ] [ seal ] A. Bonamy [ seal ] Raoul Lizaire [ seal ] Gonzalo Zaldumbide [ seal ] Enrique Olaya Herrera [ seal ] C. Escallon S. Gurgel do Amaral [ seal ] A. Araujo-Jorge [ seal ] R. J. Alfaro [ seal ] Carlos L. López [ seal ] Eligio Ayala [ seal ] [ seal ] Máximo H. Zepeda Adrián Recinos J. Lisandro Medina [ seal ] Fernando González Roa [ seal ] Benito Flores Cayetano Ochoa [ seal ] David Rosales, hijo A. Morales [ seal ] G. A. Díaz [ seal ] Orestes Ferrara [ seal ] Gustavo Gutiérrez [ seal ] [ seal ] Frank B. Kellogg [ seal ] Charles Evans Hughes


---
## [d512] General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration, Signed at Washington, January 5, 1929 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text only printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, with an understanding, April 1 (legislative day of March 13), 1935; ratified by the President, with the said understanding, April 16, 1935; ratification deposited April 16, 1935; proclaimed by the President, April 16. 1935.
Treaty Series No. 886

Washington , January 5, 1929

The Governments of Venezuela, Chile, Bolivia, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Perú, Honduras, Guatemala, Haiti, Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Panamá, Paraguay, Nicaragua, Mexico, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and the United States of America, represented at the Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration, assembled at Washington, pursuant to the Resolution adopted on February 18, 1928, by the Sixth International Conference of American States held in the City of Habana;

In accordance with the solemn declarations made at said Conference to the effect that the American Republics condemn war as an instrument of national policy and adopt obligatory arbitration as the means for the settlement of their international differences of a juridical character;

Being convinced that the Republics of the New World, governed by the principles, institutions and practices of democracy and bound furthermore by mutual interests, which are increasing each day, have not only the necessity but also the duty of avoiding the disturbance of continental harmony whenever differences which are susceptible of judicial decision arise among them;

Conscious of the great moral and material benefits which peace offers to humanity and that the sentiment and opinion of America demand, without delay, the organization of an arbitral system which shall strengthen the permanent reign of justice and law;

And animated by the purpose of giving conventional form to these postulates and aspirations with the minimum exceptions which they have considered indispensable to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of the States and in the most ample manner possible under present international conditions, have resolved to effect the present treaty, and for that purpose have designated the Plenipotentiaries hereinafter named: Venezuela: Carlos F. Grisanti. Francisco Arroyo Parejo. Chile: Manuel Foster Recabarren. Antonio Planet. Bolivia: Eduardo Diez de Medina. Uruguay: José Pedro Varela. Costa Rica: Manuel Castro Quesada. José Tible-Machado. Perú: Hernán Velarde. Victor M. Maúrtua. Honduras: Rómulo Durón. Marcos López Ponce. Guatemala: Adrián Recinos. José Falla. Haití: Auguste Bonamy. Raoul Lizaire. Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide. Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera. Carlos Escallón. Brazil: S. Gurgel do Amaral. A. G. de Araujo-Jorge. Panamá: Ricardo J. Alfaro. Carlos L. López. Paraguay: Eligio Ayala. Nicaragua: Maximo H. Zepeda. Adrián Recinos. J. Lisandro Medina. Mexico: Fernando González Roa. Benito Flores. El Salvador: Cayetano Ochoa. David Rosales, Jr. Dominican Republic: Angel Morales. Gustavo A. Díaz. Cuba: Orestes Ferrara. Gustavo Gutiérrez. United States of America: Frank B. Kellogg. Charles Evans Hughes.

Who, after having deposited their full powers, found in good and due form by the Conference, have agreed upon the following:

Article 1

The High Contracting Parties bind themselves to submit to arbitration all differences of an international character which have arisen or may arise between them by virtue of a claim of right made by one against the other under treaty or otherwise, which it has not been possible to adjust by diplomacy and which are juridical in their nature by reason of being susceptible of decision by the application of the principles of law.

There shall be considered as included among the questions of juridical character: ( a ) The interpretation of a treaty; ( b ) Any question of international law; ( c ) The existence of any fact which, if established, would constitute a breach of an international obligation; ( d ) The nature and extent of the reparation to be made for the breach of an international obligation.

The provisions of this treaty shall not preclude any of the Parties, before resorting to arbitration, from having recourse to procedures of investigation and conciliation established in conventions then in force between them.

Article 2

There are excepted from the stipulations of this treaty the following controversies: ( a ) Those which are within the domestic jurisdiction of any of the Parties to the dispute and are not controlled by international law; and ( b ) Those which affect the interest or refer to the action of a State not a Party to this treaty.

Article 3

The arbitrator or tribunal who shall decide the controversy shall be designated by agreement of the Parties.

In the absence of an agreement the following procedure shall be adopted:

Each Party shall nominate two arbitrators, of whom only one may be a national of said Party or selected from the persons whom said Party has designated as members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. The other member may be of any other American nationality. These arbitrators shall in turn select a fifth arbitrator who shall be the president of the court.

Should the arbitrators be unable to reach an agreement among themselves for the selection of a fifth American arbitrator, or in lieu thereof, of another who is not, each Party shall designate a non-American member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague, and the two persons so designated shall select the fifth arbitrator, who may be of any nationality other than that of a Party to the dispute.

Article 4

The Parties to the dispute shall formulate by common accord, in each case, a special agreement which shall clearly define the particular subject-matter of the controversy, the seat of the court, the rules which will be observed in the proceedings, and the other conditions to which the Parties may agree.

If an accord has not been reached with regard to the agreement within three months reckoned from the date of the installation of the court, the agreement shall be formulated by the court.

Article 5

In case of death, resignation or incapacity of one or more of the arbitrators the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

Article 6

When there are more than two States directly interested in the same controversy, and the interests of two or more of them are similar, the State or States who are on the same side of the question may increase the number of arbitrators on the court, provided that in all cases the Parties on each side of the controversy shall appoint an equal number of arbitrators. There shall also be a presiding arbitrator selected in the same manner as that provided in the last paragraph of Article 3, the Parties on each side of the controversy being regarded as a single Party for the purpose of making the designation therein described.

Article 7

The award, duly pronounced and notified to the Parties, settles the dispute definitively and without appeal.

Differences which arise with regard to its interpretation or execution shall be submitted to the decision of the court which rendered the award.

Article 8

The reservations made by one of the High Contracting Parties shall have the effect that the other Contracting Parties are not bound with respect to the Party making the reservations except to the same extent as that expressed therein.

Article 9

The present treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties in conformity with their respective constitutional procedures.

The original treaty and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the Department of State of the United States of America which shall give notice of the ratifications through diplomatic channels to the other signatory Governments and the treaty shall enter into effect for the High Contracting Parties in the order that they deposit their ratifications.

This treaty shall remain in force indefinitely, but it may be denounced by means of one year’s previous notice at the expiration of which it shall cease to be in force as regards the Party denouncing the same, but shall remain in force as regards the other signatories. Notice of the denunciation shall be addressed to the Department of State of the United States of America which will transmit it for appropriate action to the other signatory Governments.

Any American State not a signatory of this treaty may adhere to the same by transmitting the official instrument setting forth such adherence to the Department of State of the United States of America which will notify the other High Contracting Parties thereof in the manner heretofore mentioned.

In witness whereof the above mentioned Plenipotentiaries have signed this treaty in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French and hereunto affix their respective seals.

Done at the city of Washington, on this fifth day of January, 1929.

The Delegation of Venezuela signs the present Treaty of Arbitration with the following reservations: First. There shall be excepted from this Treaty those matters which, according to the Constitution or the laws of Venezuela, are under the jurisdiction of its courts; and, especially, those matters relating to pecuniary claims of foreigners. In such matters, arbitration shall not be resorted to except when, legal remedies having been exhausted by the claimant, it shall appear that there has been a denial of justice. Second. There shall also be excepted those matters controlled by international agreements now in force.

Carlos F. Grisanti Fr. Arroyo Parejo [ seal ] [ seal ]

Chile does not accept obligatory arbitration for questions which have their origin in situations or acts antedating the present treaty nor does it accept obligatory arbitration for those questions which, being under the exclusive competency of the national jurisdiction, the interested parties claim the right to withdraw from the cognizance of the established judicial authorities, unless said authorities decline to pass judgment on any action or exception which any natural or juridical foreign person may present to them in the form established by the laws of the country.

Manuel Foster [ seal ] A. Planet [ seal ]

The Delegation of Bolivia, in accordance with the doctrine and policy invariably maintained by Bolivia in the field of international jurisprudence, gives full adherence to and signs the General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration which the Republics of America are to sanction, formulating the following express reservations: First. There may be excepted from the provisions of the present agreement, questions arising from acts occurring or conventions concluded before the said treaty goes into effect, as well as those which, in conformity with international law, are under the exclusive jurisdiction of the state. Second. It is also understood that, for the submission to arbitration of a territorial controversy or dispute, the zone to which the said arbitration is to apply must be previously determined in the arbitral agreement.

[ seal ] E. Diez de Medina

I vote in favor of the Treaty of Arbitration, with the reservation formulated by the Delegation of Uruguay at the Fifth Pan American Conference, favoring broad arbitration; and with the understanding that arbitration will be resorted to only in case of denial of justice, when the national tribunals have jurisdiction, according to the legislation of their own country.

[ seal ] José Pedro Varela

Reservations of Costa Rica: ( a ) The obligations contracted under this Treaty do not annul, abrogate or restrict the arbitration conventions which are now in force between Costa Rica and another or others of the high contracting parties and do not involve arbitration, disavowal or renewed discussion of questions which may have already been settled by arbitral awards. ( b ) The obligations contracted under this Treaty do not involve the arbitration of judgments handed down by the courts of Costa Rica in civil cases which may be submitted to them and with regard to which the interested parties have recognized the jurisdiction of said courts.

Manuel Castro Quesada [ seal ] José Tible-Machado [ seal ] Hernán Velarde [ seal ] Victor M. Maurtua [ seal ]

The Delegation of Honduras, in signing the present Treaty, formulates an express reservation making it a matter of record that the provisions thereof shall not be applicable to pending international questions or controversies or to those which may arise in the future relative to acts prior to the date on which the said Treaty goes into effect.

[ seal ] Rómulo E. Durón [ seal ] M. López Ponce

The Delegation of Guatemala makes the following reservations: 1. In order to submit to arbitration any questions relating to the boundaries of the nation, the approval of the Legislative Assembly must first be given, in each case, in conformity with the Constitution of the Republic. 2. The provisions of the present Convention do not alter or modify the conventions and treaties previously entered into by the Republic of Guatemala.

[ seal ] Adrián Recinos [ seal ] José Falla A. Bonamy [ seal ] Raoul Lizaire [ seal ]

The Delegation of Ecuador, pursuant to instructions of its Government, reserves from the jurisdiction of the obligatory arbitration agreed upon in the present Treaty: 1. Questions at present governed by conventions or treaties now in effect; 2. Those which may arise from previous causes or may result from acts preceding the signature of this treaty; 3. Pecuniary claims of foreigners who may not have previously exhausted all legal remedies before the courts of justice of the country, it being understood that such is the interpretation and the extent of the application which the Government of Ecuador has always given to the Buenos Aires Convention of August 11, 1910.

Gonzalo Zaldumbide [ seal ]

The Delegation of Colombia signs the foregoing Convention with the following two declarations or reservations: First. The obligations which the Republic of Colombia may contract thereby refer to the differences which may arise from acts subsequent to the ratification of the Convention; Second. Except in the case of a denial of justice, the arbitration provided for in this convention is not applicable to the questions which may have arisen or which may arise between a citizen, an association or a corporation of one of the parties and the other contracting state when the judges or courts of the latter state are, in accordance with its legislation, competent to settle the controversy.

[ seal ] Enrique Olaya Herrera [ seal ] C Escallón [ seal ] S. Gurgel do Amaral [ seal ] A Araujo Jorge R. J. Alfaro [ seal ] Carlos L. López [ seal ]

Reservation of the Delegation of Paraguay:

I sign this treaty with the reservation that Paraguay excludes from its application questions which directly or indirectly affect the integrity of the national territory and are not merely questions of frontiers or boundaries.

Eligio Ayala [ seal ] Máximo H Zepeda Adrián Recinos [ seal ] J Lisandro Medina

Mexican Reservation:

Mexico makes the reservation that differences, which fall under the jurisdiction of the courts, shall not form a subject of the procedure provided for by the Convention, except in case of denial of justice, and until after the judgment passed by the competent national authority has been placed in the class of res judicata.

[ seal ] Ferdo González Roa Benito Flores

The Delegation of El Salvador to the Conference on Conciliation and Arbitration assembled in Washington accepts and signs the General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration concluded this day by said Conference, with the following reservations or restrictions: 1. After the words of paragraph 1 of Article 1 reading: “Under treaty or otherwise”, the following words are to be added: “subsequent to the present Convention.” The article continues without any other modification. 2. Paragraph (a) of Article 2 is accepted by the Delegation without the final words which read: “and are not controlled by international law”, which should be considered as eliminated. 3. This Treaty does not include controversies or differences with regard to points or questions which, according to the Political Constitution of El Salvador, must not be submitted to arbitration, and 4. Pecuniary claims against the nation shall be decided by its judges and courts, since they have jurisdiction thereof, and recourse shall be had to international arbitration only in the cases provided in the Constitution and laws of El Salvador, that is, in cases of denial of justice or unusual delay in the administration thereof.

[ seal ] David Rosales, hijo Cayetano Ochoa [ seal ]

The Dominican Republic, in signing the General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration, does so with the understanding that controversies relating to questions which are under the jurisdiction of its courts shall not be referred to arbitral jurisdiction except in accordance with the principles of international law.

A Morales [ seal ] G A Díaz [ seal ] Orestes Ferrara [ seal ] Gustavo Gutiérrez [ seal ] Frank B Kellogg [ seal ] Charles Evans Hughes [ seal ]

[The Senate resolution of April 1, 1935, giving advice and consent to the ratification of the treaty, contained the following understanding, made a part of such ratification, “that the special agreement in each case shall be made only by the President, and then only by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur.”— Congressional Record , volume 79, pages 4753–4754.]


---
## [d513] Protocol of Progressive Arbitration, Signed at Washington, January 5, 1929 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text only printed.
Treaty Series No. 886

Whereas, a General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration has this day been signed at Washington by Plenipotentiaries of the Governments of Venezuela, Chile, Bolivia, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Perú, Honduras, Guatemala, Haiti, Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Panamá, Paraguay, Nicaragua, Mexico, El Salvador, the Dominican Republic, Cuba and the United States of America;

Whereas, that treaty by its terms excepts certain controversies from the stipulations thereof;

Whereas, by means of reservations attached to the treaty at the time of signing, ratifying or adhering, certain other controversies have been or may be also excepted from the stipulations of the treaty or reserved from the operation thereof;

Whereas, it is deemed desirable to establish a procedure whereby such exceptions or reservations may from time to time be abandoned in whole or in part by the Parties to said treaty, thus progressively extending the field of arbitration;

The Governments named above have agreed as follows:

Article 1

Any Party to the General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration signed at Washington the fifth day of January, 1929, may at any time deposit with the Department of State of the United States of America an appropriate instrument evidencing that it has abandoned in whole or in part the exceptions from arbitration stipulated in the said treaty or the reservation or reservations attached by it thereto.

Article 2

A certified copy of each instrument deposited with the Department of State of the United States of America pursuant to the provisions of Article 1 of his protocol shall be transmitted by the said Department through diplomatic channels to every other Party to the above-mentioned General Treaty of Inter-American Arbitration.

In witness whereof the above-mentioned Plenipotentiaries have signed this protocol in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French and hereunto affix their respective seals.

Done at the city of Washington , on this fifth day of January, 1929 . [ seal ] Carlos F. Grisanti [ seal ] Fr. Arroyo Parejo [ seal ] Manuel Foster [ seal ] A. Planet. [ seal ] E. Diez de Medina José Pedro Varela [ seal ] Manuel Castro Quesada [ seal ] José Tible Machado [ seal ] Hernán Velarde [ seal ] Victor M. Maurtua [ seal ] Rómulo E. Durón . [ seal ] M. López Ponce [ seal ] Adrián Recinos [ seal ] José Falla [ seal ] A. Bonamy [ seal ] Raoul Lizaire [ seal ] Gonzalo Zaldumbide [ seal ] Enrique Olaya Herrera [ seal ] C. Escallón [ seal ] S. Gurgel do Amaral [ seal ] A. Araujo Jorge [ seal ] R. J. Alfaro [ seal ] Carlos L. López [ seal ] Eligio Ayala Máximo H. Zepeda [ seal ] Adrián Recinos J. Lisandro Medina Ferdo González Roa [ seal ] Benito Flores Cayetano Ochoa [ seal ] David Rosales, hijo A. Morales [ seal ] G. A. Díaz [ seal ] [ seal ] Orestes Ferrara [ seal ] Gustavo Gutiérrez Frank B Kellogg [ seal ] Charles Evans Hughes [ seal ]


---
## [d514] General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection, Signed at Washington, February 20, 1929 In English, French, Portuguese, and Spanish; English text only printed Ratification advised by the Senate, December 16 (legislative day of December 15), 1930; ratified by the President, February 11, 1931; ratification of the United States deposited with the Pan American Union, February 17, 1931; proclaimed by the President, February 27, 1931.
Treaty Series No. 833

February 20, 1929

The Governments of Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ecuador, Uruguay, Dominican Republic, Chile, Panamá, Venezuela, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala, Haiti, Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, Nicaragua, Honduras and the United States of America, represented at the Pan American Trade Mark Conference at Washington in accordance with the terms of the resolution adopted on February 15, 1928, at the Sixth International Conference of American States at Habana, and the resolution of May 2, 1928, adopted by the Governing Board of the Pan American Union at Washington,

Considering it necessary to revise the “Convention for the Protection of Commercial, Industrial, and Agricultural Trade Marks and Commercial Names,” signed at Santiago, Chile, on April 28, 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 297 . which replaced the “Convention for the Protection of Trade Marks” signed at Buenos Aires on August 20, 1910, Ibid. , 1910, p. 50 . with a view of introducing therein the reforms which the development of law and practice have made advisable;

Animated by the desire to reconcile the different juridical systems which prevail in the several American Republics; and

Convinced of the necessity of undertaking this work in its broadest scope, with due regard for the respective national legislations,

Have resolved to negotiate the present Convention for the protection of trade marks, trade names and for the repression of unfair competition and false indications of geographical origin, and for this purpose have appointed as their respective delegates,

Peru: Alfredo González-Prada. Bolivia: Emeterio Cano de la Vega. Paraguay: Juan V. Ramirez. Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide. Uruguay: J. Varela Acevedo. Dominican Republic: Francisco de Moya. Chile: Oscar Blanco Viel. Panamá: Ricardo J. Alfaro. Juan B. Chevalier. Venezuela: Pedro R. Rincones. Costa Rica: Manuel Castro Quesada. Fernando E. Piza. Cuba: Gustavo Gutierrez. Alfredo Bufill. Guatemala: Adrian Recinos. Ramiro Fernandez. Haiti: Raoul Lizaire. Colombia: Roberto Botero Escobar. Pablo Garcia de la Parra. Brazil: Carlos Delgado de Carvalho. Mexico: Francisco Suastegui. Nicaragua: Vicente Vita. Honduras: Carlos Izaguirre V. United States of America: Francis White. Thomas E. Robertson. Edward S. Rogers.

Who, after having deposited their credentials, which were found to be in good and due form by the Conference, have agreed as follows:

Chapter I.— Equality of Citizens and Aliens as to Trade Mark and Commercial Protection

Article 1

The Contracting States bind themselves to grant to the nationals of the other Contracting States and to domiciled foreigners who own a manufacturing or commercial establishment or an agricultural development in any of the States which have ratified or adhered to the present Convention the same rights and remedies which their laws extend to their own nationals or domiciled persons with respect to trade marks, trade names, and the repression of unfair competition and false indications of geographical origin or source.

Chapter II.— Trade Mark Protection

Article 2

The person who desires to obtain protection for his marks in a country other than his own, in which this Convention is in force, can obtain protection either by applying directly to the proper office of the State in which he desires to obtain protection, or through the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau referred to in the Protocol on the Inter-American Registration of Trade Marks, if this Protocol has been accepted by his country and the country in which he seeks protection.

Article 3

Every mark duly registered or legally protected in one of the Contracting States shall be admitted to registration or deposit and legally protected in the other Contracting States, upon compliance with the formal provisions of the domestic law of such States.

Registration or deposit may be refused or cancelled of marks:

1. The distinguishing elements of which infringe rights already acquired by another person in the country where registration or deposit is claimed.

2. Which lack any distinctive character or consist exclusively of words, symbols, or signs which serve in trade to designate the class, kind, quality, quantity, use, value, place of origin of the products, time of production, or which are or have become at the time registration or deposit is sought, generic or usual terms in current language or in the commercial usage of the country where registration or deposit is sought, when the owner of the marks seeks to appropriate them as a distinguishing element of his mark.

In determining the distinctive character of a mark, all the circumstances existing should be taken into account, particularly the duration of the use of the mark and if in fact it has acquired in the country where deposit, registration or protection is sought, a significance distinctive of the applicant’s goods.

3. Which offend public morals or which may be contrary to public order.

4. Which tend to expose persons, institutions, beliefs, national symbols or those of associations of public interest, to ridicule or contempt.

5. Which contain representations of racial types or scenes typical or characteristic of any of the Contracting States, other than that of the origin of the mark.

6. Which have as a principal distinguishing element, phrases, names or slogans which constitute the trade name or an essential or characteristic part thereof, belonging to some person engaged in any of the other Contracting States in the manufacture, trade or production of articles or merchandise of the same class as that to which the mark is applied.

Article 4

The Contracting States agree to refuse to register or to cancel the registration and to prohibit the use, without authorization by competent authority, of marks which include national and state flags and coats-of-arms, national or state seals, designs on public coins and postage stamps, official labels, certificates or guarantees, or any national or state official insignia or simulations of any of the foregoing.

Article 5

Labels, industrial designs, slogans, prints, catalogues or advertisements used to identify or to advertise goods, shall receive the same protection accorded to trade marks in countries where they are considered as such, upon complying with the requirements of the domestic trade mark law.

Article 6

The Contracting States agree to admit to registration or deposit and to protect collective marks and marks of associations, the existence of which is not contrary to the laws of the country of origin, even when such associations do not own a manufacturing, industrial, commercial or agricultural establishment.

Each country shall determine the particular conditions under which such marks may be protected.

States, Provinces or Municipalities, in their character of corporations, may own, use, register or deposit marks and shall in that sense enjoy the benefits of this Convention.

Article 7

Any owner of a mark protected in one of the Contracting States in accordance with its domestic law, who may know that some other person is using or applying to register or deposit an interfering mark in any other of the Contracting States, shall have the right to oppose such use, registration or deposit and shall have the right to employ all legal means, procedure or recourse provided in the country in which such interfering mark is being used or where its registration or deposit is being sought, and upon proof that the person who is using such mark or applying to register or deposit it, had knowledge of the existence and continuous use in any of the Contracting States of the mark on which opposition is based upon goods of the same class, the opposer may claim for himself the preferential right to use such mark in the country where the opposition is made or priority to register or deposit it in such country, upon compliance with the requirements established by the domestic legislation in such country and by this Convention.

Article 8

When the owner of a mark seeks the registration or deposit of the mark in a Contracting State other than that of origin of the mark and such registration or deposit is refused because of the previous registration or deposit of an interfering mark, he shall have the right to apply for and obtain the cancellation or annulment of the interfering mark upon proving, in accordance with the legal procedure of the country in which cancellation is sought, the stipulations in Paragraph ( a ) and those of either Paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) below: ( a ) That he enjoyed legal protection for his mark in another of the Contracting States prior to the date of the application for the registration or deposit which he seeks to cancel; and ( b ) that the claimant of the interfering mark, the cancellation of which is sought, had knowledge of the use, employment, registration or deposit in any of the Contracting States of the mark for the specific goods to which said interfering mark is applied, prior to adoption and use thereof or prior to the filing of the application or deposit of the mark which is sought to be cancelled; or ( c ) that the owner of the mark who seeks cancellation based on a prior right to the ownership and use of such mark, has traded or trades with or in the country in which cancellation is sought, and that goods designated by his mark have circulated and circulate in said country from a date prior to the filing of the application for registration or deposit for the mark, the cancellation which is claimed, or prior to the adoption and use of the same.

Article 9

When the refusal of registration or deposit of a mark is based on a registration previously effected in accordance with this Convention, the owner of the refused mark shall have the right to request and obtain the cancellation of the mark previously registered or deposited, by proving, in accordance with the legal procedure of the country in which he is endeavoring to obtain registration or deposit of his mark, that the registrant of the mark which he desires to cancel, has abandoned it. The period within which a mark may be declared abandoned for lack of use shall be determined by the internal law of each country, and if there is no provision in the internal law, the period shall be two years and one day beginning from the date of registration or deposit if the mark has never been used, or one year and one day if the abandonment or lack of use took place after the mark has been used.

Article 10

The period of protection granted to marks registered, deposited or renewed under this Convention, shall be the period fixed by the laws of the State in which registration, deposit or renewal is made at the time when made.

Once the registration or deposit of a mark in any Contracting State has been effected, each such registration or deposit shall exist independently of every other and shall not be affected by changes that may occur in the registration or deposit of such mark in the other Contracting States, unless otherwise provided by domestic law.

Article 11

The transfer of the ownership of a registered or deposited mark in the country of its original registration shall be effective and shall be recognized in the other Contracting States, provided that reliable proof be furnished that such transfer has been executed and registered in accordance with the internal law of the State in which such transfer took place. Such transfer shall be recorded in accordance with the legislation of the country in which it is to be effective.

The use and exploitation of trade marks may be transferred separately for each country, and such transfer shall be recorded upon the production of reliable proof that such transfer has been executed in accordance with the internal law of the State in which such transfer took place. Such transfer shall be recorded in accordance with the legislation of the country in which it is to be effective.

Article 12

Any registration or deposit which has been effected in one of the Contracting States, or any pending application for registration or deposit, made by an agent, representative or customer of the owner of a mark in which a right has been acquired in another Contracting State through its registration, prior application or use, shall give to the original owner the right to demand its cancellation or refusal in accordance with the provisions of this Convention and to request and obtain the protection for himself, it being considered that such protection shall revert to the date of the application of the mark so denied or cancelled.

Article 13

The use of a trade mark by its owner in a form different in minor or non-substantial elements from the form in which the mark has been registered in any of the Contracting States, shall not entail forfeiture of the registration or impair the protection of the mark.

In case the form or distinctive elements of the mark are substantially changed, or the list of goods to which it is to be applied is modified or increased, the proprietor of the mark may be required to apply for a new registration, without prejudice to the protection of the original mark or in respect to the original list of goods.

The requirements of the laws of the Contracting States with respect to the legend which indicates the authority for the use of trade marks shall be deemed fulfilled in respect to goods of foreign origin if such marks carry the words or indications legally used or required to be used in the country of origin of the goods.

Chapter III.— Protection of Commercial Names

Article 14

Trade names or commercial names of persons entitled to the benefits of this Convention shall be protected in all the Contracting States. Such protection shall be enjoyed without necessity of deposit or registration, whether or not the name forms part of a trade mark.

Article 15

The names of an individual, surnames and trade names used by manufacturers, industrialists, merchants or agriculturists to denote their trade or calling, as well as the firm’s name, the name or title legally adopted and used by associations, corporations, companies or manufacturing, industrial, commercial or agricultural entities, in accordance with the provisions of the respective national laws, shall be understood to be commercial names.

Article 16

The protection which this Convention affords to commercial names shall be: ( a ) to prohibit the use or adoption of a commercial name identical with or deceptively similar to one legally adopted and previously used by another engaged in the same business in any of the Contracting States; and ( b ) to prohibit the use, registration or filing of a trade mark the distinguishing elements of which consist of the whole or an essential part of a commercial name legally adopted and previously used by another owner domiciled or established in any of the Contracting States, engaged in the manufacture, sale or production of products or merchandise of the same kind as those for which the trade mark is intended.

Article 17

Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist domiciled or established in any of the Contracting States, may, in accordance with the law and the legal procedure of such countries, oppose the adoption, use, registration or deposit of a trade mark for products or merchandise of the same class as those sold under his commercial name, when he believes that such trade mark or the inclusion in it of the trade or commercial name or a simulation thereof may lead to error or confusion in the mind of the consumer with respect to such commercial name legally adopted and previously in use.

Article 18

Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist domiciled or established in any of the Contracting States may, in accordance with the law and procedure of the country where the proceeding is brought, apply for and obtain an injunction against the use of any commercial name or the cancellation of the registration or deposit of any trade mark, when such name or mark is intended for use in the manufacture, sale or production of articles or merchandise of the same class, by proving: ( a ) that the commercial name or trade mark, the enjoining or cancellation of which is desired, is identical with or deceptively similar to his commercial name already legally adopted and previously used in any of the Contracting States, in the manufacture, sale or production of articles of the same class, and ( b ) that prior to the adoption and use of the commercial name, or to the adoption and use or application for registration or deposit of the trade mark, the cancellation of which is sought, or the use of which is sought to be enjoined, he used and continues to use for the manufacture, sale or production of the same products or merchandise his commercial name adopted and previously used in any of the Contracting States or in the State in which cancellation or injunction is sought.

Article 19

The protection of commercial names shall be given in accordance with the internal legislation and by the terms of this Convention, and in all cases where the internal legislation permits, by the competent governmental or administrative authorities whenever they have knowledge or reliable proof of their legal existence and use, or otherwise upon the motion of any interested party.

Chapter IV.— Repression of Unfair Competition

Article 20

Every act or deed contrary to commercial good faith or to the normal and honorable development of industrial or business activities shall be considered as unfair competition and, therefore, unjust and prohibited.

Article 21

The following are declared to be acts of unfair competition and unless otherwise effectively dealt with under the domestic laws of the Contracting States shall be repressed under the provisions of this Convention: ( a ) Acts calculated directly or indirectly to represent that the goods or business of a manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist are the goods or business of another manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist of any of the other Contracting States, whether such representation be made by the appropriation or simulation of trade marks, symbols, distinctive names, the imitation of labels, wrappers, containers, commercial names, or other means of identification; ( b ) The use of false descriptions of goods, by words, symbols or other means tending to deceive the public in the country where the acts occur, with respect to the nature, quality, or utility of the goods; ( c ) The use of false indications of geographical origin or source of goods, by words, symbols, or other means which tend in that respect to deceive the public in the country in which these acts occur; ( d ) To sell, or offer for sale to the public an article, product or merchandise of such form or appearance that even though it does not bear directly or indirectly an indication of origin or source, gives or produces, either by pictures, ornaments, or language employed in the text, the impression of being a product, article or commodity originating, manufactured or produced in one of the other Contracting States; ( e ) Any other act or deed contrary to good faith in industrial, commercial or agricultural matters which, because of its nature or purpose, may be considered analogous or similar to those above mentioned.

Article 22

The Contracting States which may not yet have enacted legislation repressing the acts of unfair competition mentioned in this chapter, shall apply to such acts the penalties contained in their legislation on trade marks or in any other statutes, and shall grant relief by way of injunction against the continuance of said acts at the request of any party injured; those causing such injury shall also be answerable in damages to the injured party.

Chapter V.— Repression of False Indications of Geographical Origin or Source

Article 23

Every indication of geographical origin or source which does not actually correspond to the place in which the article, product or merchandise was fabricated, manufactured, produced or harvested, shall be considered fraudulent and illegal, and therefore prohibited.

Article 24

For the purposes of this Convention the place of geographical origin or source shall be considered as indicated when the geographical name of a definite locality, region, country or nation, either expressly and directly, or indirectly, appears on any trade mark, label, cover, packing or wrapping, of any article, product or merchandise, directly or indirectly thereon, provided that said geographical name serves as a basis for or is the dominant element of the sentences, words or expressions used.

Article 25

Geographical names indicating geographical origin or source are not susceptible of individual appropriation, and may be freely used to indicate the origin or source of the products or merchandise or his commercial domicile, by any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist established in the place indicated or dealing in the products there originating.

Article 26

The indication of the place of geographical origin or source, affixed to or stamped upon the product or merchandise, must correspond exactly to the place in which the product or merchandise has been fabricated, manufactured or harvested.

Article 27

Names, phrases or words, constituting in whole or in part geographical terms which through constant, general and reputable use in commerce have come to form the name or designation itself of the article, product or merchandise to which they are applied, are exempt from the provisions of the preceding articles; this exception, however, does not include regional indications of origin of industrial or agricultural products the quality and reputation of which to the consuming public depend on the place of production or origin.

Article 28

In the absence of any special remedies insuring the repression of false indications of geographical origin or source, remedies provided by the domestic sanitary laws, laws dealing with misbranding and the laws relating to trade marks or trade names, shall be applicable in the Contracting States.

Chapter VI.— Remedies

Article 29

The manufacture, exportation, importation, distribution, or sale is forbidden of articles or products which directly or indirectly infringe any of the provisions of this Convention with respect to trade mark protection; protection and safeguard of commercial names; repression of unfair competition; and repression of false indications of geographical origin or source.

Article 30

Any act prohibited by this Convention will be repressed by the competent administrative or judicial authorities of the government of the state in which the offense was committed, by the legal methods and procedure existing in said country, either by official action, or at the request of interested parties, who may avail themselves of the rights and remedies afforded by the laws to secure indemnification for the damage and loss suffered; the articles, products or merchandise or their marks, which are the instrumentality of the acts of unfair competition, shall be liable to seizure or destruction, or the offending markings obliterated, as the case may be.

Article 31

Any manufacturer, industrialist, merchant or agriculturist, interested in the production, manufacture, or trade in the merchandise or articles affected by any prohibited act or deed, as well as his agents or representatives in any of the Contracting States and the consular officers of the state to which the locality or region falsely indicated as the place to which belongs the geographical origin or source, shall have sufficient legal authority to take and prosecute the necessary actions and proceedings before the administrative authorities and the courts of the Contracting States.

The same authority shall be enjoyed by official commissions or institutions and by syndicates or associations which represent the interests of industry, agriculture or commerce and which have been legally established for the defense of honest and fair trade methods.

Chapter VII.— General Provisions

Article 32

The administrative authorities and the courts shall have sole jurisdiction over administrative proceedings and administrative judgments, civil or criminal, arising in matters relating to the application of the national law.

Any differences which may arise with respect to the interpretation or application of the principles of this Convention shall be settled by the courts of justice of each State, and only in case of the denial of justice shall they be submitted to arbitration.

Article 33

Each of the Contracting States, in which it does not yet exist, hereby agrees to establish a protective service, for the suppression of unfair competition and false indication of geographic origin or source, and to publish for opposition in the official publication of the government, or in some other periodical, the trade marks solicited and granted as well as the administrative decisions made in the matter.

Article 34

The present Convention shall be subject to periodic revision with the object of introducing therein such improvements as experience may indicate, taking advantage of any international conferences held by the American States, to which each country shall send a delegation in which it is recommended that there be included experts in the subject of trade marks, in order that effective results may be achieved.

The national administration of the country in which such conferences are held shall prepare, with the assistance of the Pan American Union and the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, the work of the respective conference.

The Director of the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau may attend the sessions of such conferences and may take part in the discussions, but shall have no vote.

Article 35

The provisions of this Convention shall have the force of law in those States in which international treaties possess that character, as soon as they are ratified by their constitutional organs.

The Contracting States in which the fulfillment of international agreements is dependent upon the enactment of appropriate laws, on accepting in principle this Convention, agree to request of their legislative bodies the enactment of the necessary legislation in the shortest possible period of time and in accordance with their constitutional provisions.

Article 36

The Contracting States agree that, as soon as this Convention becomes effective, the Trade Mark Conventions of 1910 and 1923 shall automatically cease to have effect; but any rights which have been acquired, or which may be acquired thereunder, up to the time of the coming into effect of this Convention, shall continue to be valid until their due expiration.

Article 37

The present Convention shall be ratified by the Contracting States in conformity with their respective constitutional procedures.

The original Convention and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Pan American Union which shall transmit certified copies of the former and shall communicate notice of such ratifications to the other signatory Governments, and the Convention shall enter into effect for the Contracting States in the order that they deposit their ratifications.

This Convention shall remain in force indefinitely, but it may be denounced by means of notice given one year in advance, at the expiration of which it shall cease to be in force as regards the Party denouncing the same, but shall remain in force as regards the other States. All denunciations shall be sent to the Pan American Union which will thereupon transmit notice thereof to the other Contracting States.

The American States which have not subscribed to this Convention may adhere thereto by sending the respective official instrument to the Pan American Union which, in turn, will notify the governments of the remaining Contracting States in the manner previously indicated.

In witness whereof the above named delegates have signed this Convention in English, Spanish, Portuguese and French, and thereto have affixed their respective seals.

Done in the City of Washington, on the twentieth day of February in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.

[ seal ] A. González Prada [ seal ] Emeterio Cano de la Vega [ seal ] Juan Vicente Ramírez [ seal ] Gonzalo Zaldumbide [ seal ] Varela [ seal ] Francisco de Moya [ seal ] Oscar Blanco Viel I sign this convention in so far as its provisions are not contrary to the National Legislation of my country, making express reservation with regard to the provisions of this convention regarding which there is no legislation in Chile. [ seal ] R. J. Alfaro [ seal ] Juan B. Chevalier [ seal ] P. R. Rincones [ seal ] Manuel Castro Quesada [ seal ] F. E. Piza [ seal ] Gustavo Gutiérrez [ seal ] A. L. Bufill [ seal ] Adrián Recinos [ seal ] Ramiro Fernández [ seal ] Raoul Lizaire [ seal ] Pablo García de la Parra [ seal ] Carlos Delgado de Carvalho [ seal ] F. Suástegui [ seal ] Vicente Vita [ seal ] Carlos Izaguirre V. [ seal ] Edward S. Rogers [ seal ] Thomas E. Robertson [ seal ] Francis White

Protocol on the Inter-American Registration of Trade Marks

Whereas , The Governments of Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ecuador, Uruguay, Dominican Republic, Chile, Panama, Venezuela, Costa Rica, Cuba, Guatemala, Haiti, Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, Nicaragua, Honduras and the United States of America have this day signed at Washington through their respective delegates a General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection;

Whereas , the maintenance of an international American agency is considered desirable that manufacturers, industrialists, merchants and agriculturists may enjoy the trade mark and commercial protection which that Convention grants them, and that it may serve as a center of information, and cooperate in the fulfillment and improvement of the provisions of the Convention;

Whereas , the adoption of a general convention and a protocol may facilitate ratification among the Contracting States and adherence among the American Eepublics which have not taken part in the negotiations, since acceptance of the Convention does not imply acceptance of this instrument,

The above mentioned governments have agreed as follows:

Article 1

Natural or juridical persons domiciled in or those who possess a manufacturing or commercial establishment or an agricultural enterprise in any of the States that may have ratified or adhered to the present Protocol, may obtain the protection of their trade marks through the registration of such marks in the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau.

Article 2

The owner of a mark registered or deposited in one of the Contracting States who desires to register it in any of the other Contracting States, shall file an application to this effect in the office of the country of original registration which office shall transmit it to the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, complying with the Regulations. A postal money order or draft on a bank of recognized standing, in the amount of $50.00, as a fee for the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, plus the amount of the fees required by the national law of each of the countries in which he desires to obtain protection for his mark, shall accompany such application.

Article 3

Immediately on receipt of the application for the registration of a mark, and on determining that it fulfills all the requirements, the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall issue a certificate and shall transmit by registered mail copies of the same accompanied by a money order for the amount required by the respective Offices of the States in which protection is desired. In the case of adhesions or ratifications of additional states after the registration of a mark, the Inter-American Bureau shall, through the respective offices of their countries, inform the proprietors of marks registered through the Bureau, of said adhesions or ratifications, informing them of the right that they have to register their marks in the new adhering or ratifying States, in which registration shall be effected in the manner above mentioned.

Article 4

Each of the Contracting States, through its Trade Mark Office, shall immediately acknowledge to the Inter-American Bureau, the receipt of the application for registration of each mark, and shall proceed to carry through the proceedings with every possible dispatch, directing that the application be published at the expense of the applicant in the usual official papers, and at the proper time shall notify the Inter-American Bureau of the action that it may have taken in accordance with its internal legislation and the provisions of this Convention.

In case protection is granted to the mark, it shall issue a certificate of registration in which shall be indicated the legal period of registration; which certificate shall be issued with the same formalities as national certificates and shall have the same effect in so far as ownership of the mark is concerned. This certificate of registration shall be sent to the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, which shall transmit it to the proprietor of the mark through the proper office of the country of origin.

If, within seven months after the receipt by a Contracting State of an application for the protection of a trade mark transmitted by the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, the administration of such State does not communicate to the Bureau notice of refusal of protection based on the provisions of its domestic legislation or on the provisions of the General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection such mark shall be considered as registered and the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall so communicate to the applicant through the country of origin, and shall issue a special certificate which shall have the same force and legal value as a national certificate.

In case protection of a mark is refused in accordance with the provisions of the internal legislation of a State or of the General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection, the applicant may have the same recourse which the respective laws grant to the citizens of the state refusing protection. The period within which the recourse and actions granted by national laws may be exercised shall begin four months after receipt by the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau of the notice of refusal.

The Inter-American registration of a trade mark communicated to the Contracting States, which may already enjoy protection in such States shall replace any other registration of the same mark effected previously by any other means, without prejudice to the rights already acquired by national registration.

Article 5

In order to effect the transfer of ownership of a trade mark or the assignment of the use of the same, the same procedure as that set forth in the foregoing articles shall be followed, except that in this case there shall only be remitted to the Inter-American Bureau $10.00, to be retained by said Bureau, plus the fees fixed by the domestic legislation of each one of the countries in which it is desired to register the transfer or assignment of the mark, it being understood that the use of trade marks may be transferred separately in each country.

Article 6

If the applicant claims color as a distinctive element of his mark he shall be required to: 1. Send a statement attached to the application for registration declaring the color or the combination of colors which he claims; and 2. Attach to the application for registration copies or specimens of the mark as actually used, showing the colors claimed, which shall be attached to the notifications sent by the Inter-American Bureau. The number of copies to be sent shall be fixed by the Regulations.

Article 7

Trade marks shall be published in a bulletin edited by the Inter-American Bureau, wherein shall appear the matter contained in the application for registration and an electrotype of the mark supplied by the applicant.

Each administration of the Contracting States shall receive free of charge from the Inter-American Bureau as many copies of the above mentioned publication as it may ask for.

The publication of a mark in the bulletin of the Inter-American Bureau shall have the same effect as publication in the official journals or bulletins of the Contracting States.

Article 8

The Inter-American Bureau, on receipt of payment of a fee to be fixed by the Regulations, shall furnish to any person who may so request, copies of the entries made in the register with reference to any particular mark.

Article 9

The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall keep a record of renewals which have been effected in compliance with the requirements of the domestic laws of the Contracting States, and after payment of a fee of $10.00 to the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau and the customary fees required by the States where said renewal is effected.

Six months prior to the expiration of the period of protection, the Inter-American Bureau shall communicate this information to the administration of the country of origin and to the owner of the mark.

Article 10

The owner of a trade mark may at any time relinquish protection in one or several of the Contracting States, by means of a notice sent to the administration of the country of origin of the mark, to be communicated to the Inter-American Bureau, which in turn shall notify the countries concerned.

Article 11

An applicant for registration or deposit, transfer or renewal of a trade mark through the Inter-American Bureau, may appoint by a proper power of attorney at any time, an agent or attorney to represent him in any procedure, administrative, judicial or otherwise, arising in connection with such trade marks or application in any Contracting State.

Such agents or attorneys shall be entitled to notice of all the proceedings and to receive and present all documents that may be required by the Trade Mark Bureau of each country under the provisions of this Protocol.

Article 12

The administration in the country of origin shall notify the Inter-American Bureau of all annulments, cancellations, renunciations, transfers and all other changes in the ownership or use of the mark.

The Inter-American Bureau shall record these changes, notify the administrations of the Contracting States and publish them immediately in its bulletin.

The same procedure shall be followed when the proprietor of the mark requests a reduction in the list of products to which the trade mark is applied.

The subsequent addition of a new product to the list may not be obtained except by a new registration of the mark according to the provisions of Article 2 of this Protocol. The same procedure shall be followed in the case of the substitution of one product for another.

Article 13

The Contracting States bind themselves to send through their respective national trade mark offices, as soon as they are published, two copies of the official bulletins or publications in which judicial or administrative decisions or resolutions, laws, decrees, regulations, circulars, or any other provisions emanating from the executive, legislative or judicial authorities may appear and which refer to the protection of trade marks, the protection of commercial names, the repression of unfair competition and of false indications of origin, whether of an administrative, civil or penal nature.

Article 14

In order to comply with this Protocol, and to facilitate the inter-American registration of trade marks, the Contracting States establish as their international agency the Bureau located in Habana, Republic of Cuba, referred to as the “Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau,” and confer upon its official correspondence the postal frank.

Article 15

The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall perform the duties specified in this Protocol and in the Regulations appended hereto, and shall be supported in part by the fees received for handling trade marks and in part by the quotas assigned to the Contracting States. These quotas shall be paid directly and in advance to the Bureau in yearly installments and shall be determined in the following manner:

The population of each Contracting State ratifying this Protocol shall be determined by its latest official census, the number of inhabitants to be divided into units of 100,000 each, fractions above 50,000 to be considered as a full unit, and those under to be disregarded. The annual budget shall be divided by the total number of units, thereby determining the quota per unit. The contribution of each State to the Inter-American Bureau shall be determined by multiplying the quota per unit by the number of units allotted to each State.

Upon receipt of new ratifications and adhesions to this Protocol, the same procedure shall be followed with respect to such States, the quota of each to be determined by adding these additional units and thus determining the quota per unit.

It is expressly agreed that this annual contribution will continue to be paid only so long as the other revenues of the Bureau are not sufficient to cover the expenses of its maintenance. So long as this situation exists, the latest census of population will be used each year and, on the basis of official data furnished by each Contracting State, the changes in population shall be made and the quotas determined anew before fixing the contributions to be paid by those States. Once the Bureau becomes self-supporting through its own receipts, the balance remaining from the quotas shall be returned to the States in proportion to the amounts received from them.

At the end of each year the Inter-American Bureau shall prepare a statement of fees and contributions received and after making provision for its budgetary requirements for the following year and setting aside a reserve fund, shall return the balance to the Contracting States in proportion to the quotas paid by them.

The budget of the Bureau and the reserve fund to be maintained shall be submitted by the Director of the Bureau and approved by the Chief Executive of the State in which the Bureau is established. The Director of the Bureau shall also submit an annual report to all ratifying States, for their information.

Article 16

In case the Bureau should cease to exist, it shall be liquidated under the supervision of the Government of Cuba, the balance of the funds remaining to be distributed among the Contracting States in the same proportion as they contributed to its support. The buildings and other tangible property of the Bureau shall become the property of the Government of Cuba in recognition of the services of that Republic in giving effect to this Protocol; the Government of Cuba agreeing to dedicate such property to purposes essentially inter-American in character.

The Contracting States agree to accept as final any steps that may be taken for the liquidation of the Bureau.

Article 17

The provisions of this Protocol shall have the force of law in those States in which international treaties possess that character, as soon as they are ratified by their constitutional organs.

The Contracting States in which the fulfillment of international agreements is dependent upon the enactment of appropriate laws, on accepting in principle this Protocol, agree to request of their legislative bodies the enactment of the necessary legislation in the shortest possible period of time and in accordance with their constitutional provisions.

Article 18

The Contracting States agree that, as soon as this Protocol becomes effective, the Trade Mark Conventions of 1910 and 1923 shall automatically cease to have effect in so far as they relate to the organization of the Inter-American Bureau; but any rights which have been or which may be acquired in accordance with the provisions of said Conventions, up to the time of the coming into effect of this Protocol, shall continue to be valid until their due expiration.

Article 19

The present Protocol shall be ratified by the Contracting States, in accordance with their respective constitutional procedure, after they shall have ratified the “General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection.”

The original Protocol and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Pan American Union, which shall transmit certified copies of the former and shall communicate notice of such ratifications to the Governments of the other signatory States and the Protocol shall become effective for the Contracting States in the order in which they deposit their ratifications.

This Protocol shall remain in force indefinitely, but it may be denounced by means of notice given one year in advance, at the expiration of which it shall cease to be in force as regards the State denouncing the same, but shall remain in force as regards the other States. All denunciations shall fee sent to the Pan American Union which will thereupon transmit notice thereof to the other States.

The American States which have not signed this Protocol may adhere thereto by sending the respective official instrument to the Pan American Union which, in turn, will thereupon notify the Governments of the remaining Contracting States in the manner previously indicated.

Annex regulations Article 1 The application to obtain protection under the Protocol of which the present Annex is a part shall be made by the owner of the mark or his legal representative to the administration of the State in which the mark has been originally registered or deposited in accordance with the provisions in force in that State, accompanied by a money order or draft payable to the Director of the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau in the sum required by this Protocol. The application and money order shall be accompanied by an electrotype (10 x 10 centimeters) of the mark reproducing it as registered in the State of original registration. Article 2 The National Bureau of such State having ascertained that the registration of the mark is legal and valid shall send to the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau, as soon as possible: A. The money order; B. The electrotype of the mark; C. A certificate in duplicate containing the following details: 1. The name and address of the owner of the mark; 2. The date of the application for registration in the State of original registration; 3. The date of registration of the mark in such State; 4. The order number of the registration in such State; 5. The date of expiration of the protection of the mark in such State; 6. A facsimile of the mark as used; 7. A statement of the goods on which the mark is used; 8. The date of the application to the National Bureau of the State of the original registration to obtain protection under the Convention and this Protocol. D. When the applicant wishes to claim color as a distinctive element of his mark, thirty copies of the mark printed on paper, showing the color, and a brief description of the same. Article 3 Within ten days after receipt from such administration of the matter required by Article 2, the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall enter all information in its books and inform the National Bureau of such State of the receipt of the application and of the number and date of the inter-American registration. Article 4 Within thirty days after such receipt, detailed copies of the inter-American registration shall be sent to the National Bureaus of those States which have ratified the Protocol. Article 5 The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall publish a periodic bulletin wherein shall appear the data included in the certificate provided for by Section C of Article 2 of these Regulations and also all other information which may be appropriate concerning registration of such marks in the various States. The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau may also publish in its bulletin or separately, books, documents, information, studies, and articles concerning the protection of industrial property. Article 6 The acceptance, opposition, or refusal of a mark by the National Bureau of any one of the Contracting States shall be transmitted within ten days following the date of its receipt by the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau to the administration of the State of origin of the application with a view to its communication to whom it may concern. Article 7 Changes in ownership of a mark communicated by the Bureau of the country of origin to the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau and accompanied by the required fees shall be examined, entered in the register, and corresponding notice sent to the Bureaus of the other Contracting States in which the transfer is to take place, accompanied by the proper fees, all within the time herein fixed with respect to application. Article 8 The Director of the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall be appointed by the Executive Power of the State in which the Bureau is located, from among lawyers of experience in the subject matter and of recognized moral standing. The Director, at his discretion, may appoint or remove the officials or employees of his Bureau, giving notice thereof to the Government of Cuba; adopt and promulgate such other rules, regulations and circulars as he may deem convenient for the proper functioning of the Bureau and which are not inconsistent with this Protocol. Article 9 The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau may carry on any investigation on the subject of trade marks which the Government of any of the Contracting States may request, and encourage the investigation of all problems, difficulties or obstacles which may hinder the operation of the General Inter-American Convention for Trade Mark and Commercial Protection, or of this Protocol. Article 10 The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall cooperate with the Governments of the Contracting States in the preparation of material for international conferences on this subject; submit to those States such suggestions as it may consider useful, and such opinions as may be requested as to the modifications which should be introduced in the inter-American pacts or in the laws concerning these subjects and in general facilitate the execution of the purposes of this Protocol. Article 11 The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall inform the signatory Governments at least once a year as to the work which the Bureau has done or is doing. Article 12 The Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau shall maintain as far as possible relations with similar offices and scientific and industrial institutions and organizations for the exchange of publications, information, and data relative to the progress of the law on the subject of the protection of trade marks, defense and protection of commercial names and suppression of unfair competition and false indications of origin. Article 13 These Regulations may be modified at any time at the request of any of the Contracting States or the Director of the Bureau, provided that the modification does not violate the General Convention or the Protocol of which the Regulations form a part, and that the modification is approved by the Governing Board of the Pan American Union, after having been circulated among the Contracting States for a period of six months before submission for the approval of the Pan American Union. In witness whereof the above named delegates have signed this Protocol in English, Spanish, Portuguese and French, and thereto have affixed their respective seals. Done in the City of Washington on the twentieth day of February in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine . [ seal ] A. González Prada [ seal ] Emeterio Cano de la Vega [ seal ] Juan Vicente Ramírez [ seal ] Gonzalo Zaldumbide [ seal ] Francisco de Moya [ seal ] R. J. Alfaro [ seal ] Juan B. Chevalier [ seal ] P. R. Rincones [ seal ] Manuel Castro Quesada [ seal ] F. E. Piza [ seal ] Gustavo Gutiérrez. [ seal ] A. L. Bupill [ seal ] Raoul Lizaire [ seal ] Pablo García de la Parra [ seal ] Carlos Delgado de Carvalho [ seal ] F. Suástegui [ seal ] Vicente Vita [ seal ] Carlos Izaguirre V. [ seal ] Francis White [ seal ] Thomas E. Robertson [ seal ] Edward S. Rogers


---
## [d522] The Secretary of State to American Diplomatic Officers in Latin America
710.11/1306a

Washington , February 28, 1929 .

Sirs : The discussions in the United States Senate incident to its consideration of the Multilateral Peace Pact, Treaty for the Renunciation of War, signed at Paris, August 27, 1928, Foreign Relations , 1928, vol. i , p. 153 . and the report of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs The General Pact for the Renunciation of War: Hearings Before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, 70th Cong., 2d sess. (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1928). which dealt briefly but specifically with the Monroe Doctrine, have given rise to questions regarding the true meaning given by the United States to that Doctrine. The present seems a propitious opportunity to prepare for communication to the countries of Latin America when the occasion shall be thought by the Department to be opportune, the views of the Government of the United States on the scope and purpose of that Doctrine.

The Monroe Doctrine is sometimes conceived as a policy formulated by President Monroe and his Cabinet solely as a result of the formation in Europe of the Holy Alliance, and the operations, through France, of that Alliance against Spain. This is not a true appraisal of the Doctrine. The formation of the Holy Alliance and its subsequent activities constituted the occasion for casting into definite formula the principles behind the Doctrine, and for announcing such formula when made; but the principles of the Doctrine are as old as the nation itself. They were understood and, from time to time, announced, as occasion required, by the Revolutionary Fathers themselves.

The fundamental concept of the Doctrine is the peace and safety of the Western Hemisphere through the absolute political separation of Europe from the countries of this Western World, subject to this exception that the principle was not to be operative as against those American possessions which were held by European powers at the time the Doctrine was announced. A mere statement of this principle shows that while announced by the United States, in 1823, and by it since maintained for the primary purpose of protecting the interests, integrity, and political life of itself, yet all the other independent republics of the Western Hemisphere have, for a century, been equal beneficiaries with the United States in the advantages which have flowed from the complete political separation of Europe from the Republics on the Western Hemisphere.

A brief survey, first, of certain significant events of the colonial experience of the British colonies in America, and, next, of matters connected with the development of the principles finally embodied in Monroe’s formulae, makes entirely clear the purpose and scope of the Doctrine as announced by President Monroe in his message to Congress of December 2, 1823. James D. Richardson, A Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the Presidents , 1789–1897 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1896), vol. ii , pp. 207–220.

Prior to the War of Independence the British colonies in America had been involved in four major wars between themselves and the French colonies. No one of these wars arose by reason of conditions in colonial America; each was but an echo of some European conflict, in the causes and with the issues of which the colonies had no concern whatever. After each of these wars, except the last, and notwithstanding what the colonies lost by waging them, in treasure and men, to say nothing of the burnings, tortures, scalpings, and murders incident to the outlying frontier operations of Indian war-parties, the respective European mother countries resumed as to the colonies practically the pre-war status,—all the suffering, privation, hardship, and loss of the colonists going for naught. The American colonies were in fact mere pawns in the game of European politics, to be taken or sacrificed as the immediate interests of the parent countries appeared to require.

All of this was an incident of the mere neighborhood of the colonies of the two Powers upon this continent and was so well understood by the Revolutionary Fathers of the United States that Washington in his Farewell Address warned and admonished liis fellow citizens in these words: September 17, 1796; Richardson. Messages and Papers of the Presidents , vol. i , pp. 213, 222–223. “The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is in extending our commercial relations to have with them as little political connection as possible. … “Europe has a set of primary interests which to us have none or a very remote relation. Hence she must be engaged in frequent controversies, the causes of which are essentially foreign to our concerns. Hence, therefore, it must be unwise in us to implicate ourselves by artificial ties in the ordinary vicissitudes of her politics or the ordinary combinations and collisions of her friendships or enmities. “Our detached and distant situation invites and enables us to pursue a different course. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “Why forego the advantages of so peculiar a situation? Why quit our own to stand upon foreign ground? Why, by interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Europe, entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of European ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice?”

Three years before Washington’s address Jefferson, writing to our representatives in Spain, visualized the same principle, See John Bassett Moore, A Digest of International Law , vol. vi , p. 369. and one year after the address (1797), President Adams, in a special message to Congress dealing with the relations between the United States and France, again affirmed that “we ought not to involve ourselves in the political system of Europe, but to keep ourselves always distinct and separate from it if we can, …” Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents , vol. i , pp. 233, 238.

In the years which immediately followed, the representatives of the United States in London, Paris, and Madrid, carrying out the policies and instructions of their Government, announced and reannounced principles which Monroe a quarter of a century later incorporated in his famous declaration.

Nor were certain of these principles peculiar to the United States. Great Britain, for reasons of her own (which indeed were, in certain aspects, not unlike the considerations which moved the United States) entertained, equally with the United States, certain of those fundamental views. As early as 1798, Great Britain, not wishing France to have the advantage of an augmentation of Spanish American resources, intimated to the American Minister to Great Britain that she desired with our cooperation to separate South America from Spain. Cf. The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King , ed. by his grandson, Charles R. King (New York, G. P. Putnam’s Sons), vol. iii , p. 561.

Speaking of the Floridas, Mr. King, American Minister to Great Britain, advised Lord Hawkesbury, in the same year (1798), that “we should be unwilling to see them transferred except to ourselves;” and speaking of Louisiana, King declared we should be unwilling “it should pass into the hands of new proprietors.” The first quotation appears to be from Mr. King’s despatch No. 20 of June 1, 1801; the second quotation from Mr. King’s memorandum book, September 22, 1798. Ibid. , pp. 469, 572.

The correspondence between ourselves and Great Britain, France, and Spain immediately preceding the Louisiana purchase, and the negotiations between ourselves and France leading to the cession to the United States of the Louisiana territory, brought out that the United States had not favored, and could not favor the transfer to Great Britain of the Spanish possessions on the Mississippi; that the cession of the Floridas and Louisiana worked “most sorely on the United States” and reversed “all the political relations of the United States”; that by securing Louisiana France had “assumed to us the attitude of defiance” and made “it impossible that France and the United States can continue long friends”. The excerpts are from a despatch from Jefferson to Livingston, April 18, 1802; see Moore, Digest , vol. i , pp. 435–436. It was repeatedly declared during this period that “mere neighborhood could not be friendly.” In 1803 Jefferson in a message to Congress called attention to the fact that “… Separated by a wide ocean from the nations of Europe and from the political interests which entangle them together, with productions and wants which render our commerce and friendship useful to them and theirs to us, it can not be the interest of any to assail us, nor ours to disturb them. We should be most unwise, indeed, were we to cast away the singular blessings of the position in which nature has placed us, the opportunity she has endowed us with of pursuing, at a distance from foreign contentions, the paths of industry, peace, and happiness, of cultivating general friendship, and of bringing collisions of interest to the umpirage of reason rather than of force.” October 17, 1803; Richardson, Messages and Papers of the Presidents , vol. i , pp. 357, 361–362.

In 1811 the Congress of the United States itself in a resolution which dealt primarily with the foreign possessions lying immediately south of its southern borders, said: “Taking into view the peculiar situation of Spain, and of her American provinces; and considering the influence which the destiny of the territory adjoining the southern border of the United States may have upon their security, tranquillity, and commerce; therefore “ Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled , That the United States, under the peculiar circumstances of the existing crisis, can not, without serious inquietude, see any part of the said territory pass into the hands of any foreign power; and that a due regard to their own safety compels them to provide, under certain contingencies, for the temporary occupation of the said territory; they, at the same time, declare that the said territory shall, in their hands, remain subject to future negotiation.” Approved January 15, 1811; 3 Stat. 471.

The threatening European events of this period, which had so stirred the American people, had even a greater repercussion in Spanish America. News of the enthronement of Joseph Bonaparte in Spain, under the fiat of Napoleon and with the support of his armies, threw Spanish America into political turmoil and while action was taken towards formally recognizing Ferdinand in Mexico City, Caracas, Bogotá, Chuquisaca, and Buenos Aires, yet as early as 1809 incipient separatist movements occurred in Chuquisaca, La Paz, Quito, Bogotá, Caracas, and Valladolid (in Mexico). The movement for independence so begun was destined not to fall but to continue until all the Spanish colonies upon the mainland of the Western Hemisphere were free and independent. Out of the woe and suffering of the civil wars which drenched the Spanish Americas in blood for the next decade, arose the great national heroes, Bolivar, San Martin, O’Higgins, Moreno, Artigas, Sucre, Hidalgo, and Morales, who, together with the patriots of the United States, gave to men in modern times free political institutions and made the Western World the home of popular, democratic government.

In the midst of this conflict which, beginning in 1809, was virtually concluded by 1823, the great powers of Europe called the Conference of Aix-la-Chapelle. On the Agenda for this Conference was the proposal to discuss mediation between Spain and her revolted American colonies.

Prior to the meeting of the Conference the Due de Richelieu of France approached the Minister of the United States at Paris, Mr. Gallatin, concerning the possibility of the United States joining in the Conference to discuss this question. Mr. Gallatin advised the Due that so far as he was able to judge “… no expectation could be entertained that the United States would become parties in the proposed mediation, much less that they would accede to any measures having for object the restoration of the supremacy of Spain over the colonies which had thrown off her yoke.” Gallatin to Adams, August 10, 1818; The Writings of Albert Gallatin , ed. by Henry Adams (Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1879), vol. ii , p. 73.

To the suggestion of the Due that the revolted colonies were unfit for liberty or for forming any permanent government, and that therefore some prince of the Spanish family should be sent to America as an independent monarch, Gallatin affirmed “… that with the form of government which suited the colonies, or which any of them might select we had nothing to do; that it was only to the preservation of their independence that I had alluded; and that it appeared to me doubtful whether a Spanish prince would be considered as securing that. As to the capacity of the colonists to form a government sufficient to carry on their business and to entertain foreign relations I expressed my astonishment that any doubt could exist on that point and mentioned San Domingo as a proof that even slaves could establish governments of their own, totally independent, at least of their masters.” Gallatin to Adams, August 10, 1818; The Writings of Albert Gallatin , ed. by Henry Adams (Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1879), vol. ii , p. 73.

The position of Britain (regarding the Spanish American colonies.) at the Conference of Aix-la-Chapelle has been described by an able British author as follows: “The matter was finally settled in an interview between Alexander and Castlereagh. Castlereagh was entirely opposed to the use of force. The Alliance, he said, was not competent to arbitrate or judge , and was therefore not competent to enforce any such judgment directly or indirectly; it could only mediate or facilitate, but not compel or menace. As for the commercial boycott (to use a word of later date), which had been suggested, Great Britain could be no party to it. We had had a large direct trade with France during the war, and had suffered her armies to be clothed by our manufactures; how could we interdict commerce with South America in time of peace? Since Russia could not fight either by arms or by an interdict on trade, it would be better to tell Spain so at once than to buoy her up by false hopes in the maintenance of a false attitude. There was, besides, the moral responsibility involved in forcing the colonies to submit to such a Government as that of Spain. “It was the last argument, wrote Castlereagh, which made Alexander’s mind ‘shrink from the subject.’ He expressed his regret that he had not taken the British minister’s advice before the matter had been carried so far. As it was, he at once conferred with his ministers, with the result that at the next conference their tone was so altered that Richelieu withdrew his project. Thus ended the question so far as the Conference of Aix-la-Chapelle was concerned.” Walter Alison Phillips; The Confederation of Europe , (London, etc., Longmans, Green, and Co., 1914), p. 258.

Thus forewarned as to the attitude of the United States and advised of Great Britain’s unwillingness to participate, the powers took no action at Aix-la-Chapelle with reference to Spain and her revolted American colonies.

Two years later, John Quincy Adams, Secretary of State, instructing the American Minister to Russia, Mr. Middleton, declared on July 5, 1820, “The political system of the United States is also essentially Extra-European. To stand in firm and cautious independence of all entanglement in the European system, has been a cardinal point of their policy under every administration of their Government from the Peace of 1783 to this day. If at the original adoption of their system there could have been any doubt of its justice or its wisdom, there can be none at this time. Every year’s experience rivets it more deeply in the principles and opinions of the Nation.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 378.

Speaking of the system of the Holy Alliance and of the principles upon which it worked, Mr. Adams continued: “… But independent of the prejudices which have been excited against this instrument in the public opinion, which time and an experience of its good effects will gradually wear away, it may be observed that for the repose of Europe as well as of America, the European and American political system, should be kept as separate and distinct from each other as possible.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 379.

In the year following, 1821 the Emperor Alexander of Russia issued an imperial ukase The ukase is printed in translation in Alaskan Boundary Tribunal: Appendix to the Case of the United States (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1904), vol. ii , p. 25. which barred all non-Russians from the Aleutian Islands and the northwestern coast of America appertaining to Russia, and reserved the pursuits of commerce, whaling, and fishery exclusively to Russian subjects. Vessels approaching these coasts within less than 100 Italian miles would be subject to confiscation along with all their cargoes.

Against this action the British Government protested as early as January 1822. In the spring of 1823 the matter was taken up between Secretary Adams and Baron Tuyll, the latter representing Russia in the United States. In the course of the discussion which followed, Secretary Adams on July 17, 1823, advised Baron Tuyll specifically “… that we should contest the right of Russia to any territorial establishment on this continent, and that we should assume distinctly the principle that the American continents are no longer subjects for any European colonial establishments.” Memoirs of John Quincy Adams , ed. by Charles Francis Adams (Philadelphia, J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1875), vol. vi , p. 163.

At Aix-la-Chapelle (1818) Alexander of Russia, still fired with zeal for human rights as he conceived them, and eager to use the army and resources of Russia to the furtherance of those rights, exclaimed to Metternich, “My army as well as myself is at the disposal of Europe.” At Troppau, in October of 1820, in a conversation between the same men, Alexander declared: “Tell me what you desire, and what you wish me to do and I will do it.” Two years later, at Verona, Alexander, now thoroughly reactionary, proposed to march 150,000 men through Germany into Piedmont where they would be available as a police force for keeping the peace of Europe, and specifically where they might be used either against France or Spain as occasion might require. See Phillips, The Confederation of Europe , pp. 168, 219, 270.

The great powers of Europe were by this time thoroughly suspicious, not so much of the actual designs which Alexander might have, as of the uses to which he might be induced to devote his resources and army.

Unable to agree with the plan of the other great powers at Verona (1822), Great Britain’s representative, the Duke of Wellington, withdrew from the Congress on the ground that Great Britain could not be a party to any declaration against Spain nor to any hostile interference in her internal affairs nor to any defensive alliance between the powers.

However, the Conference determined that France might intervene in the domestic affairs of Spain; and on April 7, 1823, a French army of 95,000 men under the Due d’Angoulême crossed the Bidassoa and, entering Spain, placed Ferdinand VII upon the throne.

This act of high political intervention in the domestic concerns of another power, coupled with the avowed disposition of the four great powers of Europe, (Russia, Prussia, Austria, and France) to use their military forces for similar purposes in other countries offending their will, and the known preferences of those same powers with reference to the Spanish possessions in America, aroused apprehension not only in the United States and the Spanish Americas but in Great Britain also. The result was that in August of 1823, British statesmen reverted to the position announced on February 15, 1798, by Lord Grenville to Mr. King, Minister of the United States, when Grenville intimated a desire to enter upon negotiations with the United States to prevent Spanish America from falling into the hands of France. Cf. The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King , vol. iii , p. 561. Canning now affirmed “… that as His Britannic Majesty disclaimed all intention of appropriating to himself the smallest portion of the late Spanish possessions in America, he was also satisfied that no attempt would be made by France to bring any of them under her dominion, either by conquest or by cession from Spain. … that Great Britain certainly never again intended to lend her instrumentality or aid, either [ whether ] by mediation or otherwise, towards making up the dispute between Spain and her colonies, but that if this result could still be brought about she would not interfere to prevent it. … he too believed that the day had arrived when all America might be considered as lost to Europe so far as the tie of political dependence was concerned. … that he hoped that France would not, should even events in the Peninsula be favorable to her, extend her views to South America for the purpose of reducing the colonies, nominally, perhaps, for Spain, but in effect to subserve ends of her own; but that, in case she should meditate such a policy, he was satified that the knowledge of the United States being opposed to it, as well as Great Britain, could not fail to have its influence in checking her steps.” See despatch No. 323, August 19, 1823, from the Minister in England (Rush) to the Secretary of State (Adams), Moore, Digest , vol. vi , pp. 386, 387, 388.

Two days later (on August 20, 1823,) Canning addressed a “private and confidential” communication to Mr. Rush, Minister of the United States, in which Mr. Canning inquired whether or not Mr. Rush was, under his powers, authorized to enter into negotiations with Great Britain with reference to the Spanish Americas, and declared as to Great Britain: “For ourselves we have no disguise. “1. We conceive the recovery of the colonies by Spain to be hopeless. “2. We conceive the question of the recognition of them, as independent states, to be one of time and circumstances. “3. We are, however, by no means disposed to throw any impediment in the way of an arrangement between them and the mother country by amicable negotiation. “4. We aim not at the possession of any portion of them ourselves. “5. We could not see any portion of them transferred to any other power with indifference.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 389.

Within the next two days, other communications of the same tenor passed between Mr. Canning and Mr. Rush, and on August 23, 1823, Mr. Rush forwarded all of them to Mr. Adams.

They were received in Washington on October 9, 1823, and on October 17 President Monroe sent copies of them to Mr. Jefferson for his comments. In the transmitting communication, President Monroe, after raising certain questions with reference to the situation created by this correspondence, continued: “My own impression is that we ought to meet the proposal of the British govt., & make it known that we would view an interference on the part of the European powers, and especially an attack on the Colonies, by them, as an attack on ourselves, presuming that if they succeeded with them, they would extend it to us.” Ibid. , p. 393.

To this communication Mr. Jefferson replied on October 24, 1823, stating: “The question presented by the letters you have sent me, is the most momentous which has ever been offered to my contemplation since that of independence. That made us a nation, this sets our compass and points the course which we are to steer through the ocean of time opening on us. And never could we embark upon it under circumstances more auspicious. Our first and fundamental maxim should be, never to entangle ourselves in the broils of Europe; our second, never to suffer Europe to intermeddle with cis-Atlantic affairs. America, North and South, has a set of interests distinct from those of Europe, and particularly her own. She should therefore have a system of her own, separate and apart from that of Europe. While the last is laboring to become the domicile of despotism, our endeavor should surely be, to make our hemisphere that of freedom… . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “I could honestly, therefore, join in the declaration proposed, that we aim not at the acquisition of any of those possessions, that we will not stand in the way of any amicable arrangement between them and the mother country; but that we will oppose, with all our means, the forcible interposition of any other power, as auxiliary, stipendiary, or under any other form or pretext, and most especially their transfer to any power by conquest, cession or acquisition in any other way.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , pp. 394–395.

These communications from Mr. Rush were sent also to Mr. Madison, who on October 30, 1823, transmitted to President Monroe his observations which included the following: “From the disclosures of Mr. Canning it appears, as was otherwise to be inferred, that the success of France against Spain would be followed by an attempt of the holy allies to reduce the revolutionized colonies of the latter to their former dependence. “The professions we have made to these neighbours, our sympathies with their liberties and independence, the deep interest we have in the most friendly relations with them, and the consequences threatened by a command of their resources by the great powers, confederated against the rights and reforms of which we have given so conspicuous and persuasive an example, all unite in calling for our efforts to defeat the meditated crusade.” Ibid. , p. 396.

This was the situation when on October 7, 1823, President Monroe began a consideration of the question with his Cabinet. It is unnecessary to deal with their deliberations regarding this matter, for as seems clear from the message of President Monroe to Congress of December 2, 1823, the Cabinet merely framed certain formulae embodying the principles that had been for years in the minds of every American statesman and that had on many occasions been declared and acted upon by the Government of the United States and to some extent by the Government of Great Britain.

So much misconception of the import and scope of the principles declared by Monroe has crept in to the popular mind not only of the United States but of other countries, that it will be useful to repeat here the exact language of Monroe’s declarations which have come to be known as the Monroe Doctrine. These declarations were embodied in the following paragraphs of the message: “At the proposal of the Russian Imperial Government, made through the minister of the Emperor residing here, a full power and instructions have been transmitted to the minister of the United States at St. Petersburg to arrange by amicable negotiation the respective rights and interests of the two nations on the northwest coast of this continent. A similar proposal has been made by His Imperial Majesty to the Government of Great Britain, which has likewise been acceded to. The Government of the United States has been desirous by this friendly proceeding of manifesting the great value which they have invariably attached to the friendship of the Emperor and their solicitude to cultivate the best understanding with his Government. In the discussions to which this interest has given rise and in the arrangements by which they may terminate, the occasion has been judged proper for asserting as a principle in which the rights and interests of the United States are involved, that the American continents, by the free and independent condition which they have assumed and maintain, are henceforth not to be considered as subjects for future colonization by any European powers.” (Par. 7) Paragraph 7, message of December 2, 1823; Moore, Digest , vol. vi . pp. 401–402.

It will be observed that this paragraph deals with the question of future colonization by any European powers of the American continents. While the occasion for this was the encroachment of Russia only and on the northwest coast of America alone, yet the declaration as made referred to any European powers and covered the whole of the American continents . Thus was implemented the statement made by Secretary Adams on, July 17, 1823, to Baron Tuyll “that the American continents are no longer subject for any European colonial establishments.” Memoirs of John Quincy Adams , vol. vi , p. 163. President Monroe declared that the “rights and interests of the United States are involved” in this principle.

It is most essential to observe that the principles announced in this paragraph relate entirely to the relationship between the American continents and European powers; there is no word in the statement that relates to the inter-relationships of the independent states of the American continents; and the “rights and interests of the United States” which were involved, were the rights and interests as against Europe and not against the Latin Americas.

The succeeding portions of President Monroe’s message which deal with this subject are embraced in paragraphs 48 and 49 and read as follows: “It was stated at the commencement of the last session that a great effort was then making in Spain and Portugal to improve the condition of the people of those countries, and that it appeared to be conducted with extraordinary moderation. It need scarcely be remarked that the result has been, so far, very different from what was then anticipated. Of events in that quarter of the globe with which we have so much intercourse, and from which we derive our origin, we have always been anxious and interested spectators. The citizens of the United States cherish sentiments the most friendly in favor of the liberty and happiness of their fellow-men on that side of the Atlantic. In the wars of the European powers in matters relating to themselves we have never taken any part, nor does it comport with our policy so to do. It is only when our rights are invaded or seriously menaced that we resent injuries or make preparation for our defense. With the movements in this hemisphere we are, of necessity, more immediately connected, and by causes which must be obvious to all enlightened and impartial observers. The political system of the allied powers is essentially different in this respect from that of America. This difference proceeds from that which exists in their respective Governments. And to the defense of our own, which has been achieved by the loss of so much blood and treasure, and matured by the wisdom of their most enlightened citizens, and under which we have enjoyed unexampled felicity, this whole nation is devoted. We owe it, therefore, to candor, and to the amicable relations existing between the United States and those powers, to declare that we should consider any attempt on their part to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to our peace and safety. With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European power we have not interfered and shall not interfere. But with the governments who have declared their independence and maintained it, and whose independence we have, on great consideration and on just principles, acknowledged, we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in any other manner their destiny, by any European power, in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward the United States. In the war between these new governments and Spain we declared our neutrality at the time of their recognition, and to this we have adhered and shall continue to adhere, provided no change shall occur which, in the judgment of the competent authorities of this Government, shall make a corresponding change on the part of the United States indispensable to their security. “The late events in Spain and Portugal show that Europe is still unsettled. Of this important fact no stronger proof can be adduced than that the allied powers should have thought it proper, on any principle satisfactory to themselves, to have interposed, by force, in the internal concerns of Spain. To what extent such interposition may be carried, on the same principle, is a question in which all independent powers whose governments differ from theirs are interested, even those most remote, and surely none more so than the United States. Our policy in regard to Europe, which was adopted at an early stage of the wars which have so long agitated that quarter of the globe, nevertheless remains the same, which is, not to interfere in the internal concerns of any of its powers; to consider the government de facto as the legitimate government for us; to cultivate friendly relations with it, and to preserve those relations by a frank, firm, and manly policy, meeting in all instances the just claims of every power, submitting to injuries from none. But in regard to these continents circumstances are eminently and conspicuously different. It is impossible that the allied powers should extend their political system to any portion of either continent without endangering our peace and happiness; nor can anyone believe that our southern brethren, if left to themselves, would adopt it of their own accord. It is equally impossible, therefore, that we should behold such interposition, in any form, with indifference. If we look to the comparative strength and resources of Spain and those new governments, and their distance from each other, it must be obvious that she can never subdue them. It is still the true policy of the United States to leave the parties to themselves, in the hope that other powers will pursue the same course.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , pp. 402–403.

Of the matters covered by the foregoing paragraphs the following are to be specially noted.

a . Referring to the “allied powers” (at that time Russia, Austria, Prussia, and France) it is declared that the United States would consider any attempt on the part of those powers “to extend their system to any portion of this hemisphere as dangerous to our peace and safety.”

This declaration, like the one regarding colonization, visualized a United States against Europe, not a United States against Latin America. It is not confined to the continents only, nor, explicitly to the areas then known; it covers the whole Western Hemisphere, then discovered or thereafter to be discovered. It declares that the extension of the allied “system to any portion of this hemisphere” would be “dangerous to our peace and safety”. In other words, here is the reannouncement of the principles proclaimed by Washington, Adams, and Jefferson, that the Americas must be politically independent of Europe. This general principle was subject to one reservation as follows:

b . “With the existing colonies or dependencies of any European power we have not interfered and shall not interfere.”

But in this there is no suggestion of the United States against Latin America; it deals solely with the relationship which the United States has to the possessions of Europe on this hemisphere.

c . As to the revolted Spanish colonies which had declared their independence and maintained it and the independence of which the United States had recognized, it was declared “we could not view any interposition for the purpose of oppressing them, or controlling in any other manner their destiny by any European power, in any other light than as the manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward the United States.”

Again, the relationship set out is one between Europe and the United States as the attitude of Europe might affect the revolted Spanish colonies. There is no suggestion of interference by the United States with the Latin Americas as between and among themselves nor as between them and the United States; there is no suggestion that the United States would itself undertake to control the growth, the development, or the destiny of any Latin American state. The full scope of this announcement is that the United States would as a measure of self defense, protect the weak and struggling revolted Spanish colonies trying to make good their independence, from “any interposition” by European powers “for the purpose of oppressing them or controlling in any other manner their destiny.”

This inhibition was levelled not only at the allied powers but at any European power . It did not exclude Spain: it certainly included Great Britain. At the same time we pledged continued neutrality in the war between Spain and the new Governments.

The language held in these various declarations,—“dangerous to our peace and safety”, “manifestation of an unfriendly disposition toward the United States”, “endangering our peace and happiness”,—is one of the formulae used when nations, speaking among themselves, refer to matters involved in their self-preservation, their self-defense, or the warding off of imminent danger. I again reiterate that there is no word or intimation in the entire declaration which visualizes a hostility or aggression or an intent to control or direct the affairs of Latin American States by the United States, save only (as must be implicit in the Doctrine as to a situation difficult to conceive) where an American State should join with a European State in carrying forward any of the matters against which the inhibitions were raised.

On the other hand, any measures which the United States might take, under and pursuant to the principles laid down by Monroe, must inevitably react to the distinct and positive advantage of Latin American States; and whatever may be the situation after a hundred years of growth and development on the part of Latin American Republics, in which they have acquired strength and defensive power, no reasonable question can exist but that at the time the doctrine was announced it was and is to them a shield of utmost value, for, as Canning said, with reference to the suggestion that France might take part in “reducing the colonies, nominally, perhaps, for Spain, but in effect to subserve ends of her own”, if France “should meditate such a policy, he was satisfied that the knowledge of the United States being opposed to it, as well as Great Britain could not fail to have its influence in checking her steps.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 388.

Furthermore, though after the announcement of the Doctrine the contest between Spain and her colonies was as to various regions, either continued or renewed, and while half a century later the conflict was actually renewed by Spain against certain of her former South American colonies, yet an intimation in each case from the Government of the United States of the principles announced by Monroe was sufficient to protect the Latin American States involved from a subversion of their government or an occupation of their territories.

Just as these principles (in their development) guided the United States in its interrelations with Europe, from Washington’s administration to Monroe’s declaration, so have they been followed by the United States during the hundred years since the Doctrine was announced.

It is history that the overtures of Canning in 1823 contained a suggestion that the United States and Great Britain should enter into a convention embodying the substance of the five points covered by Mr. Canning in his letter to Rush of August 20, 1823. See Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 389. Notwithstanding Mr. Jefferson seemed not unfriendly to this suggestion, nor apparently was Mr. Madison, nor even President Monroe in the first instance, yet it was finally decided not to make a joint declaration with Great Britain, nor a conventional arrangement with her, but instead to make for the United States a declaration of its own international, political policy with reference to matters which the United States regarded as “dangerous to our peace and safety”, as a “manifestation of an unfriendly disposition towards the United States”, or as “endangering our peace and happiness”, that is, matters which involved the self-defense of the United States, its self-preservation, or its protection from imminent danger. See ibid. , pp. 393–401. The declaration was made upon the responsibility of the United States alone arid as involving the interests of the United States only. Suggestions since made by other States for some conventional understanding regarding the Doctrine, have been politely but firmly declined.

While appreciating the strength which Great Britain’s attitude on the matter gave to the position which the interests of the United States required it to take, and while the United States was encouraged, at least in part, to make the declaration by reason of this attitude of Great Britain, nevertheless the declaration when made, was the declaration of the United States only; it defined a policy of the United States speaking for itself alone; and from the day of its announcement until the present time it has been, as it remains, a unilateral declaration of policy by the United States of America. The United States alone determines when actions violative of the principles have been taken; it alone determines what, if any, measures, and the kind and extent of the measures which shall be used to combat the aggression inhibited by the Doctrine.

The Doctrine served, at the time, the significant, important, and useful purpose of declaring to the world certain acts which the United States would regard as inimical to its welfare, its self-defense, its self-preservation, or its protection from imminent danger. Europe, thus forewarned, did not, at the time, and has never since, pushed to extremes any ambitions it, or any of its component nations, may have had against the Republics of this hemisphere. The Doctrine has, as upheld by the United States, given to those same Republics a feeling of security they could not otherwise have possessed; it has given to them a freedom from anxiety of possible aggression and a relief from actual restraint that has enabled them to go forward steadily in a great, forward-looking growth and development, free from European menace even to the highest destiny great nations may carve for themselves.

Not only was Monroe’s declaration a unilateral act of high policy on the part of the United States in so far as determining when and where actions, violative of the precepts of the Doctrine, were under consideration or actually under way, and in so far as carrying out measures for the implementing of the Doctrine, but it was very early declared that by announcing the Doctrine the United States created no obligation against itself and in favor of other countries. As the result of certain loose expressions used by Mr. Poinsett, while representing the United States in Mexico, Henry Clay, then Secretary of State, in reporting to the House of Representatives certain correspondence under date of March 29, 1826, used the following language: “That The United States have contracted no Engagement, nor made any Pledge to the Governments of Mexico and South America, or to either of them, that The United States would not permit the interference of any Foreign Powers, with the Independence or form of Government of those Nations; nor have any Instructions been issued, authorizing any such Engagement or Pledge. It will be seen that the Message of the late President of The United States of the 2d December, 1823, is adverted to in the Extracts now furnished from the Instructions to Mr. Poinsett, and that he is directed to impress its principles upon the Government of The United Mexican States. “All apprehensions of the danger, to which Mr. Monroe alludes, of an interference, by the Allied Powers of Europe, to introduce their Political Systems into this Hemisphere, have ceased. If, indeed, an attempt by force had been made, by Allied Europe, to subvert the Liberties of the Southern Nations on this Continent, and to erect, upon the ruins of their Free Institutions, Monarchical Systems, the People of The United States would have stood pledged, in the opinion of their Executive, not to any Foreign State, but to themselves and to their posterity, by their dearest interests, and highest duties, to resist, to the utmost, such attempt; and it is to a Pledge of that character that Mr. Poinsett alone refers.” Gale and Seaton’s Register of Debates in Congress , 19th Cong. 1st sess., vol. ii , pt. 2, Appendix, p. 83.

As I have already said, the Doctrine laid down principles which were to be operative as between the United States and Europe, not as between the United States and the Latin American Republics save in the most unlikely event of a Latin American Republic being involved in a conspiracy with a European power to run counter to the principles of the Doctrine. The Doctrine did not lay down any principles that should govern the relationships between the United States and Latin American Republics, nor between and among the Latin American Republics themselves, nor between the Latin American Republics and European countries save only in those matters specifically inhibited by the terms of the Doctrine.

As President Roosevelt said:— “… The Monroe Doctrine is a declaration that there must be no territorial aggrandizement by any non-American power at the expense of any American power on American soil. It is in no wise intended as hostile to any nation in the Old World. Still less is it intended to give cover to any aggression by one New World power at the expense of any other.” Annual message, December 3, 1901, Foreign Relations , 1901, pp. ix , xxxvi .

In accordance with this conception, it was very early declared that the principles of the Doctrine had no application to wars between American States themselves; nor were the principles considered to apply (at least immediately after their promulgation) to a war confined to a parent country and its former colony, though later (by the middle of the last century) it was specifically declared that the United States would deny the rightfulness of Spain’s re-annexation of certain territory which, though once a Spanish colonial possession, had established and maintained its independence from the time of the announcement of the Doctrine.

It has been many times affirmed by the appropriate authorities of the United States that the principles of the Doctrine are challenged by wars between American States and European powers, only when such wars threaten the subversion or exclusion of the self-determined government of a free American State, or the acquisition by a non-American power of the territory of one of these States.

As Mr. Roosevelt said: “We do not guarantee any state against punishment if it misconducts itself, provided that punishment does not take the form of the acquisition of territory by any non-American power.” Ibid. , pp. xxxvi – xxxvii .

An analogous rule was stated by Mr. Sherman, who instructed Mr. Powell, the Minister of the United States to Haiti in 1898, that “You certainly should not proceed on the hypothesis that it is the duty of the United States to protect its American neighbors from the responsibilities which attend the exercise of independent sovereignty”; Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 476.

or as the general principle had been earlier stated by Secretary Cass—

“It is the established policy of this country not to interfere with the relations of foreign nations to each other and that it would be both improper and impossible for the United States to decide upon the course of conduct towards Venezuela which Spain may think required by her honor or her interests.” Ibid. , p. 530.

Nor is the Monroe Doctrine to be understood, nor has it ever been so interpreted by the United States, as inhibiting any form of government which any American Republic might desire to establish for itself. The United States has willingly yielded to the peoples of this hemisphere the right to set up any form of government they wished; it has recognized and dealt equally and freely with the monarchies in Haiti, Santo Domingo, Mexico, and Brazil, and with the Republics in those and other Latin American countries. Its attitude toward Emperor Maximilian in Mexico was, as expressed by Secretary Seward to Mr. Adams, the Minister of the United States to Great Britain (March 3, 1862) that the United States owed a “… duty to express to the allies, in all candor and frankness, the opinion that no monarchical government which could be founded in Mexico, in the presence of foreign navies and armies in the waters, and upon the soil of Mexico, would have any prospect of security or permanence.” See J. Reuben Clark, Memorandum on the Monroe Doctrine , December 17, 1928 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1930), p. 138.

Later Mr. Seward, in reply to a communication from the French Minister of November 29, 1865, said: “The real cause of our national discontent is, that the French army which is now in Mexico is invading a domestic republican government there which was established by her people, and with whom the United States sympathize most profoundly, for the avowed purpose of suppressing it and establishing upon its ruins a foreign monarchical government, whose presence there, so long as it should endure, could not but be regarded by the people of the United States as injurious and menacing to their own chosen and endeared republican institutions.” Moore, Digest , vol. vi , p. 501.

Thus the Monroe Doctrine has nothing whatever to do with the domestic concerns or policies or the form of government or the international conduct of the peoples of this hemisphere as among themselves. Each of the Republics of this half of the world is left free to conduct its own sovereign affairs as to it seems fit and proper. The principles of the Monroe Doctrine become operative only when some European power (either by its own motion or in complicity with an American state) undertakes to subvert or exclude the self-determined form of government of one of these Republics or acquire from them all or a part of their territory; and the principles of the Doctrine are then vitalized solely because the aggression of the European power constitutes a threat against the United States, not because of its effect upon the other American state.

It has sometimes been said that the treaty and conventional relations which have been created between the United States and certain Caribbean powers are the fruition of the application of the principles of the Monroe Doctrine. Nothing could be farther from the truth. These relations have been built between the United States and those powers by the free and voluntary act of the parties concerned; they have in each case been created either for the protection of these powers from foreign aggression which, had it taken place, might have been violative of the Monroe Doctrine, or to insure a domestic tranquillity which was to make for the peace, prosperity, and happiness of the people concerned. But the treaty and conventional obligations incurred, the treaty and conventional rights created, being wholly between and relating solely to American powers, have nothing whatever to do with the Monroe Doctrine which, by definition, is concerned only when a European power is involved in some aggression upon this hemisphere.

At times effort has been put forth to make it appear that on the rare occasions when the United States has been forced to land forces in areas of this hemisphere for the protection of American life, it has done so pursuant to the principles of the Monroe Doctrine. This is not true. The United States has landed troops for the same purpose in other parts of the world with perhaps at least equal frequency, and no one has suggested or would suggest that such landing was pursuant to the présuméd mandates of the Monroe Doctrine. The historical fact is that, under principles universally recognized as justifying such an act, troops have been landed by all the great powers in temporarily disturbed areas in which local governments were not able, for the moment, to protect foreign life. These occupations are always temporary and terminate so soon as the local sovereign becomes able to maintain peace and order and to protect the lives of foreigners within the disturbed areas. Such landings do not constitute intervention in the domestic affairs of nations. They are merely interpositions, police measures taken to assist the local sovereign where his own power is, for the time being, inadequate to afford necessary protection.

As I have repeatedly affirmed, the Monroe Doctrine is a unilateral Doctrine; the principle of self-defense on the part of the United States was implicit in the Doctrine, and has been repeatedly declared by American statesmen from the time of its announcement until the present time. It would be superfluous for me to list here the expressions to this effect of statesmen of the earlier days of the Republic, but I may call to your attention the expressions of American Statesmen during this century,—a period during which there have been voiced some false interpretations of the Doctrine to the effect that instead of being a Doctrine of self-defense, it was a Doctrine of excuse and justification for armed aggression.

Secretary Knox, speaking in 1912 [ 1911 ], affirmed: “The maintenance of the Monroe Doctrine is considered by us essential to our peace, prosperity, and national safety.” The Pending Arbitration Treaties: Address of Hon. Philander C. Knox before the American Society for the Judicial Settlement of International Disputes, Cincinnati, Ohio, November 8, 1911 (n. p., n. d.), p. 31.

Senator Lodge, speaking of a Resolution which he had introduced into the Senate of the United States, (July 31, 1912) stated: “… It rests on the principle that every nation has a right to protect its own safety,… The Monroe Doctrine was, of course, an extension in our own interests of this underlying principle—the right of every nation to provide for its own safety.” Congressional Record , vol. 48, pt. 10, p. 10045.

Mr. Root, speaking in 1914 on the subject of the Monroe Doctrine, affirmed: “It is a declaration of the United States that certain acts would be injurious to the peace and safety of the United States and that the United States would regard them as unfriendly. … “The Doctrine is not international law, but it rests upon the right of self-protection and that right is recognized by international law. … “We frequently see statements that the Doctrine has been changed or enlarged; that there is a new or different doctrine since Monroe’s time. They are mistaken. There has been no change. … “Since the Monroe Doctrine is a declaration based upon this nation’s right of self-protection, it can not be transmuted into a joint or common declaration by American States or any number of them.” Speaking before the American Society of International Law, April 22, 1914, on the subject, “The Real Monroe Doctrine”, Proceedings of the American Society of International Law , 1914, pp. 6, 10, 11, 12, 19.

On January 9 [ 6 ], 1915 [ 1916 ], President Wilson declared: “The Monroe Doctrine was proclaimed by the United States on her own authority. It always has been maintained, and always will be maintained, upon her own responsibility. But the Monroe Doctrine demanded merely that European governments should not attempt to extend their political systems to this side of the Atlantic.” Address to Pan American Scientific Congress, Washington, January 6, 1916, on “What is Pan-Americanism”, in The Public Papers of Woodrow Wilson: The New Democracy , ed. by Ray Stannard Baker and William B. Dodd (New York, Harper & Brothers, 1926), vol. i , p. 443.

Mr. Hughes, writing in 1923, declared: “The Monroe Doctrine is not a policy of aggression; it is a policy of self-defense. … It still remains an assertion of the principle of national security. … “The decision of the question as to what action the United States should take in any exigency arising in this hemisphere is not controlled by the content of the Monroe Doctrine, but may always be determined on grounds of international right and national security as freely as if the Monroe Doctrine did not exist. … “The Monroe Doctrine rests ‘upon the right of every sovereign state to protect itself by preventing a condition of affairs in which it will be too late to protect itself.’” “Observations on the Monroe Doctrine” by Hon. Charles E. Hughes, Secretary of State of the United States, American Journal of International Law , vol. 17 (1923), pp. 611, 615, 616, 619.

Speaking to the American Academy of Political and Social Science on November 30, 1923, Mr. Hughes declared: “It should be recognized that the doctrine is only a phase of American policy in this hemisphere and the other phases of that policy should be made clear. … The principle of exclusion embodies a policy of self-defense on the part of the United States; it is a policy set up and applied by the United States. While the Monroe Doctrine is thus distinctively a policy of the United States maintained for its own security, it is a policy which has rendered an inestimable service to the American Republics by keeping them free from the intrigues and rivalries of European powers.” On the subject, “The Centenary of the Monroe Doctrine,” International Conciliation, Documents for the Year 1924 , No. 194, pp. 14–15.

It is high time that misunderstanding as to the meaning of the Monroe Doctrine shall cease; that international trouble makers shall find so clear a conception of the Doctrine in the minds of the people of this hemisphere that false representations concerning it shall no longer find lodgment in the prejudices upon which such misrepresentations have heretofore lived; that irresponsible exploiters of great economic resources shall not be able hereafter to invoke an untrue concept of the Doctrine to justify and induce unwarranted international attitudes and actions; that poorly visioned, grandiose schemes of the dreamers of unrighteous dominion shall no longer be built upon erroneous principles unknown to the Doctrine.

The Monroe Doctrine is not now and never was an instrument of aggression; it is and always has been a cloak of protection. The Doctrine is not a lance; it is a shield.

I submit the foregoing to you as an official statement of and commentary upon the Monroe Doctrine which it is hoped may tend to clear up past uncertainties, remove hitherto existing apprehensions, if any, and so open the way for such a mutual understanding and appreciation of the Doctrine as shall serve to augment between the United States and Latin American countries that existing good will which already binds us together as members of the great sisterhood of Republics which, as time goes on, constantly embraces new peoples of the world.

You will be prepared to communicate the foregoing to the Minister of Foreign Affairs at such time and in such manner as the Secretary of State shall direct; in the meanwhile you will hold this instruction strictly confidential. Apparently the foregoing was never communicated to the respective Ministers for Foreign Affairs. In a letter of June 25, 1930, to his successor, Mr. Henry L. Stimson, Mr. Kellogg with respect to this instruction wrote (710.11/1449): “It seems to me that … the note ought to be delivered to the various countries and published.” To this letter the Secretary of State replied on June 28, 1930 (710.11/145): “I have now read the note and it seems to me an excellent statement of the history and scope of the Monroe Doctrine. “I have called its attention to the President with a view to releasing it but he has requested me to continue to hold it for awhile, thinking that at the present moment it might cause embarrassment in other matters.”

I am [etc.]

Frank B. Kellogg



# SUBCHAPTER [ch24subch3] Dominican Republic and Haiti Continued from Foreign Relations , 1928, vol. i , pp. 706 – 712 .

---
## [d783] The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs ( León ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/398

[Translation]

Port-au-Prince , March 15, 1929 . [Received April 12.]

Mr. Secretary of State : On January 21, 1929, the Government of the Republic of Haiti and the Government of the Dominican Republic signed a Treaty in the city of Santo Domingo, For text of the treaty, see League of Nations Treaty Series, vol. cv , p. 193. for the purpose of arriving at the settlement of the frontier differences which have long existed between the two States, and to establish the definitive delimitation of their respective territories. To accomplish this delimitation, the Treaty provides for the appointment by the two High Contracting Parties of a Commission charged with undertaking the necessary labors; and, in order to assure every guarantee for the execution of the proposed line, and to remove every obstacle capable of paralyzing the work of the Commissioners, the Treaty likewise sets up a special mixed commission to arbitrate supremely and finally the difficulties of every kind which the tracing of the frontier line may occasion. This second Commission will be composed of five members, the nationals respectively of the Republic of Haiti, the Dominican Republic, the United States of North America, the United States of Brazil and the United States of Venezuela. The two interested Governments, with the idea of surrounding the appointment of the arbitrators with all desirable precautions, have agreed to request, if it should be necessary, the chief of each of the three last named States to select the citizen of his country who will be summoned to fulfill this delicate mission. Article 7 of the Treaty, a copy of which I send Your Excellency, under this cover, has confirmed the agreement of the two Governments in this respect.

In informing Your Excellency of these facts I take the liberty of hoping that you will be so good as to advise the President of the United States of America of the communication which the President of the Republic of Haiti reserves for himself the honor of sending him if later circumstances necessitate the meeting of the Arbitration Commission.

I take [etc.]

Camille A. León


---
## [d784] The Secretary of State to the High Commissioner in Haiti ( Russell )
738.3915/400

Washington , May 9, 1929 . No. 416

Sir : In a note of March 15, a copy of which in translation is enclosed herewith, Supra. the Haitian Government requested the Department to ascertain if the President would be willing to appoint an American member to the Mixed Commission, which may be established under certain conditions, in accordance with the Haitian Dominican Boundary Treaty of January 21, 1921 [ 1929 ].

The Department desires you to transmit the enclosed reply to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and to endeavor to determine informally what the conditions are to be for the payment of the members of the Mixed Commission, should such a Commission be formed.

I am [etc.]

For the Secretary of State: Francis White

[Enclosure] The Secretary of State to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs ( León ) Washington , May 9, 1929 . Excellency : I have the honor to acknowledge your note of March 15, enclosing a copy of the recent Boundary Treaty between the Republic of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, and requesting me to ascertain whether the President would be willing to appoint the American member of the Special Mixed Commission, should the President of Haiti find it necessary to request the President of the United States to designate such a member. I take pleasure in informing you that the President will be glad to make such an appointment in the event that the formation of the Mixed Commission becomes necessary. Accept [etc.] Henry L. Stimson


---
## [d785] The Dominican Minister ( Morales ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/408

[Translation]

Washington , August 14, 1929 .

Mr. Secretary of State : I have the honor to forward herewith to Your Excellency the letter sent to you through this Legation by the Secretary of State for Foreign Relations of the Dominican Republic, and also copies of the Treaties of Peace, Friendship, Arbitration Signed February 20, 1929; League of Nations Treaty Series, vol. cv , p. 215. and Boundary Signed January 21, 1929; ibid. , p. 193. recently concluded with the Republic of Haiti to which the letter has reference.

Accept [etc.]

A. Morales

[Enclosure—Translation] The Dominican Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Sanchez ) to the Secretary of State Santo Domingo , July 9, 1929 . No. 295 Mr. Secretary of State : As is doubtless already known to Your Excellency, the boundary dispute long standing between the Dominican Republic and the Republic of Haiti has happily been settled through a treaty that was signed on January 21, 1929, at Santo Domingo, and was subsequently approved by the legislative bodies of the two countries, the ratifications being exchanged at Santo Domingo on the 29th of April of this year. Article 7 of that treaty provides that if the boundary commission should be unable to agree there shall be organized a commission consisting of five members elected as follows: One Dominican by the President of the Dominican Republic; one Haitian by the President of the Republic of Haiti; one North American by the President of the United States of North America; one Brazilian by the President of the United States of Brazil; and one Venezuelan by the President of the United States of Venezuela, upon requests made by the two high contracting parties. I have, therefore, the honor to forward herewith to Your Excellency a certified copy of the Dominican-Haitian Boundary Treaty of January 21, 1929, with a request that you kindly take note of the provisions in Article 7 above mentioned, which is prompted by lofty ideals of American solidarity. I avail myself [etc.] Rafael Augusto Sanchez


---
## [d786] The Secretary of State to the Dominican Minister ( Morales )
738.3915/408

Washington , August 21, 1929 .

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge your note of August 14 with which you were good enough to forward to me a letter from the Secretary of State for Foreign Relations of the Dominican Republic with which he enclosed a certified copy of the Treaty for Peace, Friendship and Arbitration and of the Haitian-Dominican Boundary Treaty recently concluded between the Dominican Republic and the Republic of Haiti.

I desire to thank you for transmitting this letter, and I have the honor to request that you be so kind as to forward the enclosed reply to the Secretary of State for Foreign Relations of the Dominican Republic.

Accept [etc.]

For the Secretary of State: Nelson Trusler Johnson

[Enclosure] The Secretary of State to the Dominican Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Peynado ) Washington , August 21, 1929 . Excellency : I have the honor to acknowledge the note of August 14 of Your Excellency’s predecessor, with which he was kind enough to enclose a certified copy of the Treaty for Peace, Friendship and Arbitration and of the Haitian-Dominican Boundary Treaty recently concluded between the Dominican Republic and the Republic of Haiti and to call attention particularly to Article 7 of this Boundary Treaty. I have taken note of the text of Article 7 of the Boundary Treaty which provides for the organization of a Mixed Commission, in the event that there is a disagreement on the part of the Boundary Commission, one member of which Commission shall be appointed by the President of the United States. I desire to avail myself of this opportunity of expressing my pleasure at the successful outcome of the negotiations entered into between the Dominican Republic and the Republic of Haiti for the settlement of the long standing boundary difficulty. Accept [etc.] Henry L. Stimson
