# Papers Relating to the Foreign Relations of the United States, 1928, Volume I
Fuente: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/HistoryAtState/frus/master/volumes/frus1928v01.xml
Extracción: capítulos, subcapítulos o secciones cuyo encabezado menciona Dominican/Haiti/Hayti/Santo Domingo/Trujillo/Port-au-Prince/Dajabón/Massacre River, más documentos sueltos con dos o más menciones.


---
## [d125] The Secretary of State to American Diplomatic Representatives In Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark (including the Government of Iceland), Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Persia, Peru, Poland (to invite the adherence of the Free City of Danzig), Portugal, Rumania, Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, Siam, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uruguay, and Venezuela.
711.0012Anti-War/239: Circular telegram

Washington , August 16, 1928—11 p.m.

According to present plans the multilateral anti-war treaty negotiated by the United States will be signed in Paris on August 27, 1928. I will telegraph you through the American Embassy at Paris as soon as the treaty is signed and immediately upon receipt of that telegram you should deliver the following note to the Foreign Office dating it the date of the day of the signature of the treaty. In the meantime you will seek an interview with the Foreign Minister and informally acquaint him with the contents of the note.

[The first four paragraphs of the note and the text of treaty which it contains have been omitted. For the text of the omitted paragraphs, see the first four paragraphs of the note quoted in the Department’s telegram No. 247, August 8, 3 p.m., to the Ambassador in France, printed on page 136 .] “The provisions regarding ratification and adherence are, as Your Excellency will observe, found in the third and last article. That article provides that the treaty shall take effect as soon as the ratifications of all the powers named in the preamble shall have been deposited in Washington, and that it shall be open to adherence by all the other powers of the world, instruments evidencing such adherence to be deposited in Washington also. Any power desiring to participate in the treaty may thus exercise the right to adhere thereto and my Government will be happy to receive at any time appropriate notices of adherence from those Governments wishing to contribute to the success of this new movement for world peace by bringing their peoples within its beneficent scope. It will be noted in this connection that the treaty expressly provides that when it has once come into force it shall take effect immediately between an adhering power and the other parties thereto, and it is therefore clear that any Government adhering promptly will fully share in the benefits of the treaty at the very moment it comes into effect. “I shall shortly transmit for Your Excellency’s convenient reference a printed pamphlet containing the text in translation of M. Briand’s original proposal to my Government of June 20, 1927, and the complete record of the subsequent diplomatic correspondence on the subject of a multilateral treaty for the renunciation of war. I shall also transmit, as soon as received from my Government, a certified copy of the signed treaty.”

When delivering the foregoing note please state that an identic note, mutatis mutandis , is being delivered simultaneously in the other world capitals and that pursuant to the procedure which has been followed throughout the present negotiations the text thereof is being promptly released for publication. It will be given out in Washington for publication in the morning papers of Wednesday, August 29, and you should arrange for publication in the local press at the corresponding time.

If when you deliver this note you have already received a supply of the pamphlet containing the Briand proposal and the correspondence ending with the Japanese note of July 20, 1928, please make a copy immediately available to the Foreign Office. Otherwise transmit a copy as soon as received from the Department.

Kellogg


---
## [d133] Treaty Between the United States and Other Powers, Signed at Paris, August 27, 1928 In English and French; French text not printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, Jan. 15 (legislative day of Jan. 14), 1029; ratified by the President, Jan. 17, 1929; instruments of ratification deposited at Washington, Mar. 2, 1929, by the United States of America, Australia, Dominion of Canada, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Great Britain, India, Irish Free State, Italy, New Zealand, and Union of South Africa, Mar. 25 by Poland, Mar. 27 by Belgium, Apr. 22 by France, July 24 by Japan; proclaimed by the President, July 24, 1929.
Treaty Series No. 796

The President of the German Reich, the President of the United States of America, His Majesty the King of the Belgians , the President of the French Republic, His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, His Majesty the King of Italy, His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Czechoslovak Republic ,

Deeply sensible of their solemn duty to promote the welfare of mankind;

Persuaded that the time has come when a frank renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy should be made to the end that the peaceful and friendly relations now existing between their peoples may be perpetuated;

Convinced that all changes in their relations with one another should be sought only by pacific means and be the result of a peaceful and orderly process, and that any signatory Power which shall hereafter seek to promote its national interests by resort to war should be denied the benefits furnished by this Treaty;

Hopeful that, encouraged by their example, all the other nations of the world will join in this humane endeavor and by adhering to the present Treaty as soon as it comes into force bring their peoples within the scope of its beneficent provisions, thus uniting the civilized nations of the world in a common renunciation of war as an instrument of their national policy;

Have decided to conclude a Treaty and for that purpose have appointed as their respective Plenipotentiaries: The President of the German Reich: Dr. Gustav Stresemann, Minister for Foreign Affairs; The President of the United States of America: The Honorable Frank B. Kellogg, Secretary of State; His Majesty the King of the Belgians: Mr. Paul Hymans, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister of State; The President of the French Republic: Mr. Aristide Briand, Minister for Foreign Affairs; His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Emperor of India: For Great Britain and Northern Ireland and all parts of the British Empire which are not separate Members of the League of Nations: The Right Honourable Lord Cushendun, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Acting Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; For the Dominion of Canada: The Right Honourable William Lyon Mackenzie King, Prime Minister and Minister for External Affairs; For the Commonwealth of Australia: The Honourable Alexander John McLachlan, Member of the Executive Federal Council; For the Dominion of New Zealand: The Honourable Sir Christopher James Parr, High Commissioner for New Zealand in Great Britain; For the Union of South Africa: The Honourable Jacobus Stephanus Smit, High Commissioner for the Union of South Africa in Great Britain; For the Irish Free State: Mr. William Thomas Cosgrave, President of the Executive Council; For India: The Right Honourable Lord Cushendun, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Acting Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; His Majesty the King of Italy: Count Gaetano Manzoni, his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary at Paris. His Majesty the Emperor of Japan: Count Uchida, Privy Councillor; The President of the Republic of Poland: Mr. A. Zaleski, Minister for Foreign Affairs; The President of the Czechoslovak Republic: Dr. Eduard Benes, Minister for Foreign Affairs;

who, having communicated to one another their full powers found in good and due form have agreed upon the following articles:

Article I

The High Contracting Parties solemnly declare in the names of their respective peoples that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies, and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another.

Article II

The High Contracting Parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever origin they may be, which may arise among them, shall never be sought except by pacific means.

Article III

The present Treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties named in the Preamble in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, and shall take effect as between them as soon as all their several instruments of ratification shall have been deposited at Washington.

This Treaty shall, when it has come into effect as prescribed in the preceding paragraph, remain open as long as may be necessary for adherence by all the other Powers of the world. Every instrument evidencing the adherence of a Power shall be deposited at Washington and the Treaty shall immediately upon such deposit become effective as between the Power thus adhering and the other Powers parties hereto.

It shall be the duty of the Government of the United States to furnish each Government named in the Preamble and every Government subsequently adhering to this Treaty with a certified copy of the Treaty and of every instrument of ratification or adherence. It shall also be the duty of the Government of the United States telegraphically to notify such Governments immediately upon the deposit with it of each instrument of ratification or adherence.

In Faith Whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed this Treaty in the French and English languages both texts having equal force, and hereunto affix their seals.

Done at Paris , the twenty-seventh day of August in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight . [ seal ] Gustav Stresemann [ seal ] Frank B. Kellogg [ seal ] Paul Hymans [ seal ] Ari. Briand [ seal ] Cushendun [ seal ] W. L. Mackenzie King [ seal ] A. J. McLachlan [ seal ] C. J. Parr [ seal ] J. S. Smit [ seal ] Liam T. MacCosgair [ seal ] Cushendun [ seal ] G. Manzoni [ seal ] Uchida [ seal ] August Zaleski [ seal ] Dr. Eduard Benes

[The treaty also went into effect on July 24, 1929, for the following States whose duly ratified instruments of adherence had already been deposited at the Department of State: Afghanistan (November 30, 1928) Albania (February 12, 1929) Austria (December 31, 1928) Bulgaria (July 22, 1929) China (May 8, 1929) Cuba (March 13, 1929) Denmark (March 23, 1929) Dominican Republic (December 12, 1928) Egypt (May 9, 1929) Estonia (April 26, 1929) Ethiopia (November 28, 1928) Finland (July 24, 1929) Guatemala (July 16, 1929) Hungary (July 22, 1929) Iceland (June 10, 1929) Latvia (July 23, 1929) Liberia (February 23, 1929) Lithuania (April 5, 1929) Netherlands (July 12, 1929) Nicaragua (May 13, 1929) Norway (March 26, 1929) Panama (February 25, 1929) Peru (July 23, 1929) Portugal (March 1, 1929) Rumania (March 21, 1929) Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, Kingdom of the, (February 20, 1929) Siam (January 16, 1929) Spain (March 7, 1929) Sweden (April 12, 1929) Turkey (July 8, 1929) Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (September 27, 1928) The treaty went into effect for the following States upon date of deposit at the Department of State of duly ratified instruments of adherence: Brazil, May 10, 1934 Chile, August 12, 1929 Colombia, May 28, 1931 Costa Rica, October 1, 1929 Danzig, Free City of, September 11, 1929 (transmitted by the Polish Government on behalf of Danzig) Ecuador, February 24, 1932 Greece, August 3, 1929 Haiti, March 10, 1930 Hedjaz and Nejd, Kingdom of the, February 24, 1932 (invitation to adhere issued after recognition of the Hejazi Government in 1931) Honduras, August 5, 1929 Iraq, March 23, 1932 (invitation to adhere issued after recognition of the Iraqi Government in 1931) Luxemburg, August 24, 1929 Mexico, November 26, 1929 Paraguay, December 4, 1929 Persia, July 25, 1929 Switzerland, December 2, 1929 Venezuela, October 24, 1929 Instruments of adherence were not deposited by the following States: Argentina, Bolivia, El Salvador, and Uruguay.]


---
## [d169] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Frost ) to the Secretary of State
711.3912Anti-War/z17

Santo Domingo , September 10, 1928 . [Received September 19.] No. 1004

Sir : Supplementing the Legation’s despatch No. 999 of September 4, 1928, Not printed. relative to the invitation to the Dominican Government to adhere to the treaty of renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy, I have the honor to transmit herewith a translation of a note, under date of September 7, 1928, from the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, formally announcing the decision of his Government to adhere to the treaty.

I have [etc.]

Franklin B. Frost

[Enclosure—Translation] The Dominican Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs ( Sánchez ) to the American Chargé ( Frost ) Santo Domingo , September 7, 1928 . No. 262 Mr. Chargé d’Affaires : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the note marked with number 124, of August 27th of the present year, by which, in the name of your Government, you transmitted to my Government for its consideration and approval, in case of agreement, the text of the treaty of renunciation of war as an instrument of policy in the relations of the states and which establishes the adjustment and solution of all disputes between states by pacific means. My Government has given its best attention and its most careful study as well to your note already indicated as to the treaty, whose text is integrally published in the mentioned note, and I have received the charge of communicating to you the acceptance on the part of the Dominican Government of the terms of the treaty of renunciation of war signed in Paris on the 27th of August of the present year between the Governments of Germany, United States of America, Belgium, France, Great Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the Union of South Africa, the Irish Free State, India, Italy, Japan, Poland and Czecho-Slovakia. The decision to accept the terms of said treaty and to adhere to it, ad referendum , will be submitted to the approval of the legislative chambers, at which time my Government will formally instruct our diplomatic representative in Washington to subscribe the act of adhesion. In accepting the treaty of renunciation of war as a means for solving the conflicts between States, my Government is maintaining the invariable criterion of the Dominican Republic in this matter, which culminated and took form in Art. 100 of our political constitution which reads thus: “The powers instituted by this constitution cannot declare war without previously proposing arbitration. Paragraph. To guarantee this purpose, in all the international treaties which the Republic makes there shall be provided clauses relative to resolving every difference by means of arbitration.” It is, then, for my Government a source of real satisfaction to adhere to the treaty of Paris of the date already indicated, which crystallizes the efforts of the world in the elimination of war as a means of adjusting and resolving the disputes between States. I beg you to transmit to your Government the thanks which my Government expresses for the invitation contained in the note under reference, as well as the sympathy with which my Government has contemplated the valuable contribution which your Government has given to the work of the guarantee of the peace and of the progress of the world. I welcome this opportunity [etc.] Rafael Aug. Sánchez


---
## [d179] The Haitian Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Leon ) to the American Chargé in Haiti ( Gross ) Copy transmitted to the Department as an enclosure to despatch No. 1441, July 1, 1929, from the Legation in Haiti; received July 16.
711.3812Anti-War/10

[Translation]

Port au Prince , 22 September, 1928 .

Mr. Chargé d’Affaires : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of August 27th last, under cover of which you communicated to me the text in French and English of the Treaty signed at Paris on the 27th of last month, whereby the High Contracting Parties solemnly declare in the name of their respective peoples that they condemn recourse to war for the settlement of international differences and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their mutual relations.

In the name of the Government of the United States and conformably to the Treaty, you ask the Haitian Government in giving its adherence to the Treaty to participate in the highly humanitarian work undertaken by the signatory Powers for the perpetuation of peace in the world.

The Haitian Government has followed with interest the negotiations which have resulted in the signing of this Treaty. In 1925 the Government of Haiti hastened to sign the so-called Geneva Protocol for the pacific settlement of differences between nations, thus manifesting its sincere attachment to the cause of peace. The Government of the Republic, happy again to contribute to the efforts made to outlaw war in international relations expresses the most lively satisfaction in adhering to the Treaty of Paris the high moral and Christian scope of which can not but be a title of honor for its signatories.

Accept [etc.]

Camille J. Léon


---
## [d322] The Acting Secretary of State to the Ambassador in Belgium ( Gibson )
572.F1/249: Telegram

Washington , September 10, 1928—6 p.m.

61. For Harrison. For your information: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay and Venezuela apparently only Latin American countries which signed International Telegraph Convention signed at Paris in 1925.

Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay have not yet replied to Department’s circular telegram.

Honduras, Paraguay and Peru stated they will not be represented at conference.

Panama states that it is sympathetic with Department’s desires but may not be represented at conference.

Costa Rica, Guatemala and Haiti have not received invitations. They state however that if they are represented their delegations will be instructed to vote to maintain status quo.

Department understands that: Cuba, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Nicaragua and Salvador although apparently not signatories to Paris Convention expect to be represented and to support status quo . Cuba and Mexico will appoint their Ministers at Brussels as delegate and observer, respectively. Dominican Consul at Brussels will represent his Government.

Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela will vote to maintain status quo . Bolivia and Venezuela will be represented by their Ministers at Brussels; Chile will be represented by its Chargé d’Affaires ad interim at Brussels and its Consul at Antwerp; and Colombia will be represented by its Chargé d’Affaires ad interim at Brussels.

Please inform Vallance.

Clark


---
## [d354] The American Delegation to the Secretary of State
555.H2/157

Washington , August 25, 1928 .

Sir : The undersigned appointed by the President as Delegates of the United States of America to the Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration held at Habana from March 31 to April 17, 1928, inclusive, have the honor to submit the following report:

At the closing session of the First International Conference on Emigration and Immigration, held in Rome in May, 1924, a resolution was adopted calling for a Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration, to be held in an immigration country and charging the Committee of Control of the Rome Conference with the work of preparation for such a conference, to which it should present a general report on the effect given by different governments to the resolutions voted by the Conference of Rome. The Committee of Control, which consisted of the President and the eight Vice Presidents of the Rome Conference, was to sit at Rome under the Presidency of Signor De Michelis, President of the Rome Conference, and Italian Commissioner General of Emigration.

On July 9, 1927, the Committee of Control adopted the following resolution regarding the holding of the Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration: “The Committee entrusted with the preliminary work of the IInd international emigration and immigration Conference, in accordance with the resolution of the Rome Conference, “Whereas its resolution of 10th of December appointed the city of Havana to be the see for the IInd Conference, “Having considered the message of the Cuban Government suggesting that the Conference convene during the month of March 1928, “Having read the list of questions proposed by the several Governments, to be included in the agenda of the Havana Conference: “1) Resolves to fix the agenda for the IInd international emigration and immigration Conference as it appears in annex A. “2) Entrusts its President to request the Cuban Government to kindly send invitations to the Governments interested in the IInd international emigration and immigration Conference and to fix the opening date of the same. “3) Also entrusts its President with the mission to kindly ask the Cuban Government to extend the courtesy of an invitation to the great international Organizations so as to enable them to be represented in the Conference of Havana, in a consultive character.”

On July 18, 1927, the Cuban Embassy in Washington addressed a note to the Department, Not printed. inviting this Government to participate in the Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration, which was to open in Habana, March 31, 1928, and shortly afterward it supplied the Department with the agenda of the Conference (see annex). The annexes to this report are not printed.

Several conferences were held between the appropriate officers of the Department of State, the Department of Labor and the United States Public Health Service, at which the questions of policy involved in American participation in such a conference were thoroughly discussed and weighed. It was the feeling of the Conference that participation was advisable, and on January 12, 1928, the Secretary of State addressed a letter to the President recommending American participation in the following terms: “The Cuban Government, through its Embassy in Washington, extended an invitation on July 18, 1927, to this Government to participate in the Second International Emigration and Immigration Conference, which will be held at Habana commencing March 31, 1928. On August 20, 1927, the Secretary of State sent a note to the Cuban Embassy Not printed. requesting that the thanks of the United States Government for the invitation be conveyed to the Cuban Government and that the Cuban Government be informed that this Government would be glad to consider the invitation when it had had an opportunity to examine the agenda of the conference. “After copies of the agenda had been received, communications were addressed to the Secretaries of the Treasury and Labor on December 17, 1927, Not printed. apprising them of the receipt of the invitation under discussion and transmitting copies of the agenda with the suggestion that a conference be held between representatives of the Department of State, the Department of Labor, and the United States Public Health Service for the purpose of discussing the question of participation in the conference to be held in Habana. “On December 29 representatives of the three Departments met at the State Department and after due deliberation reached the conclusion that it would be advisable for the United States to send a delegation to the Habana conference because of the following considerations: First, the United States appears to be in some degree committed to such participation not only by reason of the fact that it was formally represented in the previous conference, on the same subject held in Rome in 1924, but more especially in view of the fact that the chairman of the American delegation at that conference cast his vote in favor of the convening of a second conference, i. e., that to be held at Habana in March. Second, the conference is to be held in a Latin American country, and will be largely attended by delegates from the Latin American nations whose immigration problems are similar to those of this country, as was evidenced by their attitude at the recent meeting of the Interparliamentary Commercial Conference held at Rio de Janeiro in September of last year. “While the opinion of the conferees that the United States should accept the invitation was based chiefly on the considerations set forth in the foregoing paragraph, they did not lose sight of the advantage to this country in having the traditional position of the United States, that immigration is strictly a domestic matter, reaffirmed at this conference. Should delegates be appointed, they will accordingly be instructed to make clear this Government’s position on immigration and to take no action inconsistent with the attitude and prerogatives of the Congress of the United States in this connection. “This matter has been submitted to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget who advises that it is not in conflict with the President’s financial program. “I believe, therefore, that attendance at this conference will be in the public interest, and have the honor to recommend that, as an act of international courtesy and as a means of reaffirming the historic policy of this country on immigration and of cooperating with American countries with similar immigration problems, the Congress be requested to appropriate funds to cover the expense of sending a delegation to the Second International Emigration and Immigration Conference. It is not believed an amount in excess of $5,000 will be necessary for this purpose. “It is my further recommendation that the delegation from the United States consist of a representative of the Department of Labor, a representative of the United States Public Health Service, a representative of this Department, and a consular officer who has had extensive experience in immigration matters.”

On January 13 the President sent the Secretary of State’s letter to Congress with a message requesting legislation appropriating $5,000 for the expenses of an American delegation to the Habana Conference. An appropriate resolution was subsequently introduced in the House of Representatives and was favorably reported on by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. However, when it appeared that the volume of business for Congress was so great as to make it unlikely that definite action could be taken on the resolution before the opening of the Conference on March 31, 1928, the Secretary of State, deeming that participation in the Habana Conference was sufficiently important from the viewpoint of American foreign policy to justify making other provision for the expenses of the participation in the event that Congress should fail to make the appropriation which had been requested on March 20, informed the Cuban Embassy of this Government’s acceptance of its invitation of July 18, 1927, in the following terms: “I have the honor to refer to your note of July 18, 1927, inviting this Government to participate in the Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration which will open in Habana on March 31. “I take pleasure in informing you that the United States will be glad to send delegates although you will readily understand that the immigration policy of this country as established by Acts of the Congress will obviously impose certain restrictions upon the American delegates. However, with due regard to such limitations this Government will be happy to attend the Habana Conference and to participate so far as practicable in a discussion of the technical matters presented. “The names of the American delegates will be communicated to you in the course of the next few days. In the meantime I trust that you will notify your Government of this Government’s acceptance of its courteous invitation.”

On March 22, the Secretary of State addressed a letter to the President Not printed. recommending the appointment of delegates and submitting a draft instruction for the President’s approval. For instructions as approved, see p. 505 . These instructions emphasized the importance of upholding the American view that control of immigration is purely a domestic question and that the authority of Congress in immigration matters is exclusive. The instructions further stated that the delegates attending the Conference at Habana would be expected to reaffirm the policy of this Government that immigration is a matter of purely domestic concern in the manner in which it was stated at the Sixth Pan American Conference in Habana; to take a helpful and appropriate part in the discussions of various technical questions before the Conference with a view to informing the Conference of the forms in which these questions have presented themselves to the United States, the methods of this Government in dealing with them, the aims and policies of the Government regarding them, and the legislative and administrative machinery which it has established to carry them out; to observe the trend of the Conference and to take no action committing this Government and to refrain from voting on any of the resolutions presented for approval without the specific authorization of this Department.

On March 24 the President’s approval having been signified, the American delegates to the Second International Conference on Emigration and Immigration were announced as follows, and appropriate travel instructions were issued: The Honorable W. W. Husband, Assistant Secretary of Labor, Chairman; Mr. Norval P. Nichols, Commissioner of Immigration at Porto Rico; Surgeon John W. Kerr, United States Public Health Service; Surgeon John D. Long, United States Public Health Service; Mr. Leo J. Keena, American Consul General at Habana; Mr. Henry Carter, Department of State.

On March 30 the American delegates assembled in Habana and an office was established in the Sevilla-Biltmore Hotel with a staff consisting of two stenographers, one Spanish-English interpreter and one French-English interpreter. Office furniture and typewriters were rented in Habana and stationery and office supplies were provided by the American Embassy. Mr. Carter was appointed Secretary of the Delegation and Mr. Shields, Special Disbursing Officer in the Embassy, acted as Disbursing Officer, and in addition, took charge of the code work of the Delegation.

On the afternoon of March 30 an informal meeting of the chief delegates of the participating nations was held at the University of Habana where the Conference was to sit, at which a slate of officers of the Conference and of the Chairmen and Vice Chairmen of the Commissions of the Conference was drawn up for presentation to the opening session of the Conference. Mr. Husband was named for one of the ten Vice Presidencies, and the position of Chairman of the Third Section (that dealing with measures designed to adapt emigration to the labor necessities of immigration countries and with methods of international cooperation between the emigration and immigration services) was offered to him. Mr. Husband accepted the post of Vice President, thus becoming a member of the Presidential Committee of Control which functioned as a steering committee for the Conference (see the standing orders of the Conference, See art. 8 under “Reglamento de la Segunda Conferencia”, Diario Oflcial , first vol., p. 34. annex) but felt that the nature of his instructions made it inappropriate for him to act as Chairman of the Third Commission and accordingly declined, suggesting that Señor Aguero of the Cuban Delegation be named in his place.

The Conference proper opened at the University of Habana on the morning of March 31 when the inaugural plenary session was held. President Machado of Cuba presided at the opening and a speech of welcome was made by Dr. Rafael Martinez Ortiz, Cuban Secretary of State, to which a reply was made by Señor Gutierrez de Aguera, chief delegate of Spain and Spanish Ambassador to Cuba, following which the meeting adjourned until afternoon.

The first plenary session was held on the afternoon of March 31 under the temporary presidency of Dr. Carlos Armenteros of the Cuban Delegation. A letter from Signor de Michelis of the Rome Committee was read and a speech was made regarding the purposes and labors of that Committee by Señor Brebbia of Argentina. The Conference then proceeded to the election of officers and Dr. Sanchez de Fuentes of Cuba was nominated for President of the Conference by Signor Vivaldi of Italy, seconded by Mr. Aoki of Japan, and elected by acclamation, following which he took the chair. After deciding that both the plenary sessions and the committee meetings should be opened to the public, the Conference then elected President Machado as honorary President of the Conference upon the motion of Mr. Rais of France, seconded by Señor Perez Alfonseca of Santo Domingo.

The slate of the other officers of the Conference and its recommendations, as drawn up in the informal meeting of March 30, was then approved, and Signor Vivaldi of Italy was elected Chairman of the Drafting Committee. The organization of the Conference as finally constituted was as follows: President: Dr. Fernando Sánchez de Fuentes (Cuba). Vice Presidents: Mr. Arata Aoki (Japan). Mr. Jan Gawronski (Poland). Mr. Francisco Bernis (Spain). Mr. Guglielmo de Vivaldi (Italy). Mr. Luis Rais (France). Mr. W. W. Husband (United States). Mr. Amadeo E. Grandi (Argentina). Mr. Pedro Erasmo Callorda (Uruguay). Mr. Carlos Trejo y Lerdo de Tejada (Mexico). (A vice presidency was reserved for Portugal, but remained vacant as Portugal had no representative present at the Conference). Chairmen and Vice Chairmen of the Commissions: First Commission President: Doctor Manuel Bianchi (Chile). Vice Presidents: Mr. Liang Chi-Cho (China). Doctor Henry S. Brandt (Netherlands). Second Commission President: Mr. Antonio Sum (Czechoslovakia). Vice Presidents: Mr. Ramsés Chaffey (Egypt). Mr. Furcy Pichardo (Dominican Republic). Third Commission President: Doctor Arístides de Agüero (Cuba). Vice Presidents: Doctor Oscar Barrenechea (Peru). Doctor Fernando Dennis (Haiti). Fourth Commission President: Mr. Marc Peter (Switzerland). Vice Presidents: Mr. Heinrich Montel (Austria). Mr. Ricardo A. Morales (Panama). Fifth Commission President: Prince Sturdza (Rumania). Vice Presidents: Mr. Reider Hildal (Norway). Mr. Víctor Zevallos (Ecuador). Following discussion of minor points of organization and procedure, the plenary session adjourned, after arranging for the hours of meeting of the various Commissions, and after charging the Presidential Committee with the responsibility of settling upon a closing date for the Conference (the Committee subsequently announced April 17th as the closing date). The following two weeks were devoted exclusively to commission meetings and it was not until April 16 that the Conference again met in plenary session. The nature of the work of the committees is indicated by the subjects of discussion listed in the agenda and by the resolutions adopted by the Conference at the final plenary sessions See Diario Oficial , tomo ii , pp. 332 ff. (see annex). The American delegates were assigned to the five commissions as follows: First Commission Transport and protection of the emigrants. Hygiene and sanitary services. Doctor Kerr and Doctor Long. Second Commission Assistance to the emigrated—Cooperation, insurance, systems of mutual insurance. Mr. Nichols and Doctor Long. Third Commission Adoption of measures in order to adapt emigration to the labor necessities of immigration countries. International cooperation between the emigration and immigration services. Mr. Husband and Mr. Keena. Fourth Commission General principles of immigration treaties. Miscellaneous matters. Mr. Keena and Mr. Carter. Fifth Commission Examination of the resolutions of the Rome Conference and sequence to be given them. Mr. Carter and Mr. Nichols.

In view of the nature of their instructions, the American delegates took a passive part in the debates of the Conference, confining themselves to declarations of American policy and discussion of technical methods employed by the United States, and abstained from voting, both in the commission meetings and in the plenary sessions. However, on certain occasions they felt called upon to express their views and the following brief summary of those occasions may be noted:

1. In the first meeting of the Fifth Commission on April 3 the Chairman, Prince Sturdza of Rumania, outlined the work of the Commission as follows:

(A) To prepare and report upon the effect given by the different Governments to the resolutions adopted at the Rome Conference; (B) to prepare a report upon the possibility of giving further effect to the resolutions of the Rome Conference and (C) to consider how the work of the Rome Conference might be carried on after the Habana Conference, by further international conferences or otherwise. The delegate of the Dominican Republic was then appointed rapporteur of the Commission and the Chairman asked that the various delegations submit appropriate reports for use in the preparation of the two reports called for, and announced that consideration of the third part of the program would be deferred to the final sessions of the Commission. (This third topic was subsequently handled almost entirely in the Fourth Commission).

Following the adjournment of the meeting, Mr. Carter addressed to the rapporteur of the Fifth Commission the following letter, stating that the United States would not submit any report upon the effect given by the different Governments to the resolutions voted on by the Rome Conference: “My Government desires me to state that it does not feel it can appropriately submit to the Conference a formal report of the sort contemplated in the resolution adopted at the Rome Conference with regard to the effect given by the different governments to the resolutions voted by that Conference. “As you are aware, the fundamental position of the United States is that control of immigration is a matter of purely domestic concern, representing the exercise of a sovereign right, and that, as far as the United States of America is concerned, the authority of its Congress in immigration matters is exclusive. “While it is assumed that the Rome resolution did not contemplate any action inconsistent with that position, nevertheless, to avoid all possibility of a misunderstanding on the subject my Government will refrain from submitting a report to this section of the Conference regarding the effect given the resolutions voted on by the Conference of Rome. “I would, however, observe that the American delegates in the other sections of the Conference will be glad to furnish information regarding the present status of legislative and administrative measures in force in the United States dealing with the problems of immigration, and to cooperate in the labors of the Conference within the limits and restrictions obviously imposed upon their action by the clearly established policy and position of my Government as regards immigration matters. “I am confident that you will appreciate the attitude of my Government in this matter, and I request that this letter be made a part of the report which you intend to submit to the Fifth Section of the Conference.”

At the same time he addressed the following letter to the Chairman of the Fifth Commission, enclosing a copy of his letter to the rapporteur , and stating that the United States would make no report regarding the possibility of giving further effect to the resolutions voted at the Rome Conference:

“I have the honor to transmit herewith copy of a letter which I have addressed to the Rapporteur of the 5th Section of the Conference, in which I state that my Government does not feel that it can appropriately submit to the Conference a formal report of the sort contemplated in the resolutions adopted at the Rome Conference with regard to the effect given by the different governments to the resolutions voted by that Conference. “The Considerations advanced in that letter apply equally to the report which you requested be made you as to the possibility of giving further effect to the resolutions adopted at the Rome Conference. “I trust that you will appreciate the position of my Government in refraining from making to you the desired report, and I would request that you cause this letter to be incorporated in the report which you propose to submit to the 5th Section of the Conference.”

These letters were brought to the attention of the Fifth Commission at its next meeting on April 7 by its Chairman, Prince Sturdza, who commented briefly on them and they were also communicated to the Press for publication on the same day.

2. Just before the adjournment of the second and final meeting of the First Commission on April 9, Dr. Long made the following statement regarding the position of the American Delegation: “The Delegate of the United States declares that he wishes to make it of record that the Delegation of the United States has been highly pleased to attend the debates of the Committee. He wishes it to be made of record also that the Delegation of the United States did not vote either for or against any of the motions nor took any part in the discussions that have taken place, all because the Government of the United States understands that immigration questions come within the province of the Congress of the United States and that if any other line of conduct had been taken, a limit might have been put upon that exclusive authority held by the Congress of the United States in the matter.”

This statement was followed by one from the Argentina Delegate, Señor Brebbia, who said: “I might have saved the Committee the trouble of hearing me again ask for the floor if after hearing the Delegate of the United States I did not fear that silence of the Argentine Delegation might be construed to mean something that is in opposition to the fundamental points set forth by my North American colleagues. It is hardly necessary to say that all of us who are working together here do not propose to compromise in any way the sovereignty of the countries we represent, their laws or their regulations. This Conference is not a gathering of diplomats or plenipotentiaries empowered to draw up conventions or amend them. It is simply a meeting of technicists, which amounts to saying, men of business, who are thoroughly familiar with immigration problems and who have met in assembly to contribute, each one within his sphere, the lessons from his experience so as to harmonize as far as possible the conflicting interests of the emigrating and immigrating countries, all inspired with the wish of being useful. It is necessary that this be made clear once for all, so that there be no mistaken interpretation put upon the more or less formal agreement that may be intended by the vote of any one Delegation one way or the other when it was required to pass upon a topic under consideration.”

3. During the discussions of the Second Session of the Second Commission on April 9 the following proposal was introduced by the Cuban Delegate: “The Conference, in view of the undoubted advantages to be gained by the immigrant by the protection of his patrimony and from the assistance of institutions for the purpose of such protection, expresses the desire that measures be taken to create adequate institutions to this end.”

As this proposal pointed to the establishment of cooperative banks in immigration countries, Dr. Long, when the views of the United States were asked by the Chairman, stated that the American Delegation would prefer not to enter upon a discussion of this subject.

4. At the third meeting of the Second Commission on April 11, Dr. Long, in discussing measures of medical assistance for immigrants, said: “In so far as the United States is concerned, I have to say that before entering the country, if the immigrant contracts a disease on board, he is given attention at the expense of the steamship companies in one of the many well equipped establishments that are maintained in the principal ports such as Boston, New York, San Francisco and others. When the immigrant is already in the country he may receive medical attention in any hospital, as any citizen would, regardless as to whether he is a native or a foreigner. But when the case is one of a chronic disease, and the patient has become a public charge, then it is ascertained whether he is a citizen or a foreigner, but in the latter case, he is given the same care as if he were a citizen, and if he has not resided in the country the time provided by our law, then he is sent back to the country whence he came.”

A little later Dr. Long reminded the Commission that at the Fifth Pan American Conference, held at Santiago de Chile in 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , pp. 286 ff. a resolution was passsed, in which there was to be found a declaration of principles recommending to the several countries that they provide medical assistance for the indigent poor.

5. At the fifth meeting of the Fourth Commission during a roll call upon a Cuban declaration of principles of migration, the United States formally abstained from voting. (The Cuban declaration will be described in another portion of this report).

6. At the third plenary session on April 17 following a resolution presented to the Conference by the Fourth Commission regarding the general principles of codification of material relating to migration, Dr. Long, who announced the votes of the American Delegation throughout the plenary sessions, found it necessary to say: “When the name of the United States was called recently somebody answered yes by mistake. I wish to say that the United States does not vote.”

7. At the fourth plenary session of the Conference held on April 17, the following resolution regarding the convening of a third conference was presented by the Fifth Commission: “1.) That a Third International Conference on Emigration and Immigration meet at Madrid on a date to be fixed after the interested nations (note: the phrase ‘interested nations’ as used in this document, is understood by the Delegation to refer to those nations represented at the Habana Conference) have been consulted on the subject by the Committee referred to in the following paragraph and after a majority of them have expressed their assent. “2.) That the Directing Committee of the Habana Conference (i. e., the President and Vice Presidents of the Conference and the Chairmen and Vice Chairmen of the Commissions of the Conference) be entrusted, under the name of the Committee of Organization, with the work preliminary to the Madrid Conference, to which the Committee will submit the general report regarding steps taken by the different governments to give effect to the resolutions adopted by the Conference of Habana. “3.) That said Committee may, subject to the assent of the interested Governments, invite the collaboration of those members of the former Committee of Rome whose assistance is deemed advantageous. “4.) That said Committee may, subject to the assent of the interested Governments, transfer its seat and propose the organization of an auxiliary secretariat if it deems such a course advisable. “5.) That the said Committee be authorized to collect the archives of the two International Conferences on Emigration and Immigration in order that it may, within the scope of its authority, facilitate the putting into effect of the resolutions adopted by those Conferences, and may undertake the publication of documents and studies whose distribution may be deemed desirable.”

The resolution was voted upon paragraph by paragraph and upon the motion of Prince Sturdza, Chairman of the Fifth Commission, the vote on the first two paragraphs was made by acclamation. The American Delegation had been prepared to abstain from voting on a roll call, and to make this abstention a matter of official record as it had done in the case of all previous votes taken in the plenary sessions of the Conference. However, the Delegation considered that under the recognized rules of procedure in international gatherings, such a vote by acclamation could not be regarded as in any way binding upon this Government. It further felt that its position had already been made so clear in the meetings of the Conference and its Commissions that a further statement at this juncture would be distinctly inopportune and might weaken the effect of the statements it had already made. The Delegation, therefore, refrained from further defining its abstention from this vote by acclamation. Nevertheless, to avoid any possibility of a misunderstanding as to the effect of this vote upon the Government of the United States, the Delegation, at the conclusion of the meeting, explained verbally to officials of the Cuban Department of State that the United States could not consider the procedure of adopting by acclamation the resolution regarding the holding of a Third International Conference on Emigration and Immigration as in any way binding on the United States, and that the American Delegation wished to be understood as having abstained from voting on the resolution. The Cuban officials confirmed the Delegation’s understanding of the non-binding effect of the vote by acclamation under reference and further noted the Delegation’s statement that it desired that it be considered as having abstained from voting on this matter.

8. At the closing session of the Conference on April 17, Dr. Long addressed the Conference in Spanish to express the American Delegation’s pleasure at having taken part in the labors of the Conference and its thanks to the Cuban Government for its hospitality: “I have asked for the floor in the name of the Delegation of the United States of America to express a sentiment we have at this moment, and in evidence of our sincerity I venture to utter it in Spanish, which is a rather difficult thing to do. “In the first place, I wish to say how much we appreciate our having had the privilege of attending so important and informative an event as this Conference has proved to be. To be present at the debates, to listen to the opinions of the several Delegates and the findings of the Committees has proved an education on the subject of world migration. “In addition to this I wish to express our most sincere thanks to the Republic of Cuba and the people of Habana for the very affectionate hospitality that has been extended to us during our stay here. Whenever we come to Habana we are met with the most affectionate hospitality. “Finally, I wish to express our deep admiration for the ability and skill with which our President, His Excellency, Doctor Fernando Sánchez y Fuentes, has conducted our deliberations, the tact with which he has managed debates, and the manner in which he has recognized the rights and wishes of all the Delegates. I will close by wishing him all kinds of happiness and prosperity in life.”

While the avowed purpose of the Conference was to discuss technical and non-political questions regarding emigration and immigration in order to establish a basis for international cooperation in such matters, the principal question before the Conference was that of the manner and means whereby international consideration of the problems of emigration and immigration could best be conducted. As has been stated, the preparatory work of the Habana Conference was carried on by the Committee of Control of the Rome Conference of 1924, following the adoption of the 1924 resolution in favor of a second conference. With the completion of the organization of the Habana Conference, the responsibility for forwarding the proposals of the Rome Committee passed to the Presidential Committee of the Habana Conference, which acted as a steering committee during the sessions of the second Conference.

The main question for the Conference to decide was that of the method to be adopted for carrying on the work of the First and Second Conferences and the creation of a suitable body for that purpose. This, in turn, developed the question of: ( a ) Codification of information relating to migration problems; ( b ) Recognition of a set of general principles of migration; ( c ) The holding of a third Conference and ( d ) The creation of a body to prepare the agenda of a third Conference.

The matter of codification was settled with comparative ease by the adoption of the first resolution of the Fourth Commission: “1) That the countries of emigration and of immigration proceed as soon as possible, if they have not already done it, to make a compilation of their legislation concerning emigration, transmigration and immigration and also of their legislation regarding agricultural and industrial labor, with a view to making progress with the codification of questions on which an international agreement has been concluded. “2) That the committee to be appointed for the preparation of a third International Conference on Emigration and Immigration be entrusted with all the preparatory work for the codification of matters relating to migration on which an agreement has been concluded among the countries concerned. “3) That this Committee invite the League of Nations, the International Labour Office and the International Institute of Agriculture to continue the work undertaken by them referring directly or indirectly to migration and which they have carried out hitherto so effectively.”

However, the other questions, which were treated as a body by the Fourth Commission, revealed marked divisions of opinion in the Conference, and it is thought that a brief sketch of the various stages of the discussions on these three questions may be of interest as illustrative of the general trend of the Conference.

At the outset of the Conference the Delegation learned that Dr. Harry H. Laughlin of New York, a well known American authority on eugenics, was attending as a representative of the Pan American Office of Eugenics and Homiculture, and that he hoped to secure the support of the Pan American nations for a declaration regarding the principles of migration. In brief, his program consisted in an extensive statement of the biological and eugenic phenomena involved in migration problems; it recognized control of both emigration and immigration to be an exclusive and unalienable function of sovereignty and, therefore, to be regulated by each sovereign nation and migration entity in respect to itself; and it recommended that the current series of conferences on the subject be discontinued and that the International Labor Office at Geneva be asked to continue its work and studies on migration. Dr. Laughlin informally approached the Delegation with a view to securing its endorsement of his program but was informed that the Delegation could not support any declaration of general principles. Following this overture, the Delegation decided that its efforts should be directed against the possible adoption by the Conference of this or similar proposals and accordingly asked and obtained authority from the Department to object to the introduction of Dr. Laughlin’s proposal on the ground that it dealt with matters beyond the scope of the Conference, and to make the following statement should developments in the Conference indicate that such a course would be desirable: “In view of the vital questions of sovereignty involved in discussions of the international aspects of emigration and immigration, it is obvious that the only useful purpose to be served by international conference such as this lies in facilitating the exchange of information. It is the belief of my Government that this purpose can be adequately and effectively served by direct correspondence between governments and between organizations interested in these matters. My Government therefore suggests that the Committee of the Rome Conference be dissolved and that the present Conference be permitted to dissolve without providing for a continuation of its labors other than through the channels I have indicated. In making this suggestion I wish to express my Government’s appreciation of the manner in which the Committee of the Rome Conference has carried out its duties, the personal satisfaction I have experienced in my association with the labors of this Conference and my most hearty appreciation of the courtesy and hospitality accorded us by the Cuban Government.”

However, developments were such that the Delegation found it unnecessary to make use of this authorization.

Nevertheless, it became evident that views similar to those of Dr. Laughlin were held by certain of the delegates to the Conference when, at the third meeting of the Fourth Commission on April 11, the Cuban Delegation introduced a resolution rehearsing a set of general principles of migration closely analogous to those set forth in Dr. Laughlin’s informal proposal and recommending that the task of carrying on the work of the First and Second Conferences on Emigration and Immigration be entrusted to the members of the Committee of Control of the Rome Conference which should sit at Geneva under the title of the International Office on Emigration and Immigration (see annex). At the same meeting the Mexican Delegation introduced as an alternative proposal the same resolution on the general principles of migration which it had advanced at the Sixth Pan American Conference and which contained the following clause: “No one of the American States may place obstacles in the way of migration and immigration of the other American States nor limit it to a determined number of citizens of another American State.” (For full text see annex)

A lively discussion then took place from which it appeared that the Cuban proposal would require considerable modification before it could hope to obtain favorable consideration by the Conference and the meeting accordingly adjourned after referring the Mexican proposal to a subcommittee for examination.

At the Fifth Session of the Fourth Commission on April 13 the Cuban proposal was presented once more, this time divided into two distinct proposals, (1) a somewhat modified general declaration of principles and (2) a resolution providing for the continuation of the work of the Conferences on Emigration and Immigration by the Rome Committee under the title of the International Office on Emigration and Immigration which would sit at Geneva. The Spanish Delegate then arose and presented a counterproposal to take the place of the Cuban resolution regarding the continuation of the work of the Conference, in substance as follows: “1. That there is no occasion for the establishment of new international bodies, for it (i. e., the Conference) trusts that those which are now dealing with these questions will carry on their work with the same skill and efficiency they have displayed so far. “2. That the wish be expressed to the respective governments to the end that, pending the holding of a new Conference and in the period intervening between its sessions, the Directing Committee of the Havana Conference take over the same functions which were discharged by the Directing Committee of Rome, empowering the said Directing Committee to the end that, in agreement with the respective governments, it may change its seat, should it so deem necessary, and propose the organization of an auxiliary Secretariat”. (For full text see annex)

A heated debate ensued revolving about the question whether this new proposal could be discussed before the Commission had acted upon the Cuban resolution. However, the Commission, in spite of Cuban protestations that the Cuban Government could not assume the responsibility entailed in the Spanish resolution, finally adopted the Spanish proposal, paragraph 1 by a recorded vote of twenty-four ayes to three noes and paragraph 2 by twenty-one ayes to no noes with ten abstentions. The discussion then turned to the Cuban declaration of principle which the Rumanian Delegate proposed be referred to the new Committee for consideration at the Third Conference. The vote upon this proposal resulted in nine ayes and two noes with eighteen abstentions. As noted above, the American Delegation formally abstained from voting on these roll calls. As the meeting concluded, the Cuban Delegation once more protested the inability of the Cuban Government to assume the responsibilities involved in the adoption by the Conference of the Spanish resolution and the meeting adjourned leaving discussion of the Mexican proposal as to a declaration of principles to the following day.

At the Sixth Session of the Fourth Commission, held the morning of April 14, the subcommittee in charge of the Mexican proposal reported that the Mexican Delegation had eliminated the clause in its proposal regarding Pan American migration (see above) but that the subcommittee had been unable to agree whether the Conference should do more than note the Mexican proposal on the official record.

No further meetings of the Fourth Commission took place and accordingly the Cuban and Mexican proposals as to declarations of principles were next discussed at the third plenary session of the Conference on April 17. After a heated discussion the Mexican Delegate succeeded in having the Conference take official note of the resolutions on emigration and immigration adopted by the Sixth Pan American Conference, and in having his declaration of principles referred to the Third International Conference on Emigration and Immigration by a vote of seventeen ayes and no noes with fifteen abstentions. (It was in course of this vote that Dr. Long made the declaration noted above). At this juncture the Cuban Delegation withdrew its own declaration of principles which was to have been referred to the consideration of the Third Conference and the session adjourned, having only the question of the resolution as to the holding of a Third Conference to be passed upon by the Conference.

This was speedily accomplished at the final plenary session of April 17 by the adoption of a resolution based upon the Spanish proposal. (The text of that resolution is given in an earlier portion of this report) The attitude of the American Delegation regarding the vote of acclamation in favor of this proposition has been described elsewhere in this report.

The business of the Conference being then concluded, the closing session took place in the afternoon on April 17 with Dr. Rafael Martinez Ortiz, Cuban Secretary of State, presiding, and appropriate addresses were delivered by Dr. Sánchez de Fuentes, President of the Conference, Dr. Long of the American Delegation (see above), Signor Vivaldi of Italy, Señor Vicente Palmaroli of Spain, Señor Pérez Alfonseca of Santo Domingo, Señor Grandi of Argentina, Mr. Aoki of Japan, Mr. Gawronski of Poland, and finally by Dr. Ortiz, who, in the name of the President of Cuba, declared the Conference at an end.

The attitude of the American Delegation, throughout the debates described above, was, in view of its instructions, a passive one. Of the two proposals as to the method of carrying on work of the Conferences, the American Delegation considered the Spanish resolution placing the task in the hands of the Presidential Committee of the Habana Conference much more desirable than the Cuban resolution perpetuating the Rome Committee under the name of the International Office on Emigration and Immigration at Geneva, and it went to the extent of asking authorization from the Department to support the Spanish resolution openly in the commission meetings and the plenary sessions, should developments appear to justify an active intervention in the proceedings on the part of the United States. However, the Department was of the opinion that any departure from the attitude previously taken by the Delegation would be undesirable and accordingly withheld the authorization which the Delegation had requested. However, by the time that the Department’s views had been signified to the Delegation, any necessity which might have existed for positive action on the part of the American Delegation had been obviated by the overwhelming support given the Spanish proposal, notably by the Pan American nations, and accordingly the Department’s decision to deny this authorization was in no sense a source of embarrassment to the Delegation.

As will appear from the foregoing, there will not be a Third International Conference on Emigration and Immigration until a majority of the interested nations (i. e., those represented at Habana) express their desire for such a Conference. In the meantime the task of preparing the agenda of a third Conference is left in the hands of the Presidential Committee of the Habana Conference, of which the United States is technically a member through the election of Mr. Husband as one of the ten Vice Presidents of the Habana Conference. The only question left for this Government to determine is whether it shall continue to hold its right to a place on this Committee. In some respects it might, on the surface, be more consistent with the attitude of the United States toward the consideration by international gatherings of problems of immigration, which it regards as a purely domestic question in which the authority of Congress is exclusive, for this Government formally to withdraw from the Habana Committee. However, on the general question of American policy as to immigration, the statements and actions of the American Delegation have left no room for misapprehensions on the part of other Governments and it is not perceived that a gesture such as a formal withdrawal from the Habana Committee is needed to emphasize this point. On the other hand, both for the purpose of observation and more particularly for the purpose of cooperating with the Pan American nations, whose interest in immigration matters is closely analogous to that of this Government, the retention of the technical right to this place would appear desirable. It may further be observed that withdrawal of the United States from the Committee would destroy the present majority by which control of the Committee lies in the hands of the Pan American nations and would enable the countries of emigration to obtain that control. The question does not call for urgent decision as it is most unlikely that this Government will be asked to function in its capacity as a member of the Habana Committee or to assume any responsibilities in connection therewith for an appreciable length of time. It is, therefore, the recommendation of the Delegation that the decision on this question be deferred until such time as the United States may be asked to take active part in the work of the Committee when, it is believed, the question can be adequately decided in the light of the considerations presenting themselves at that time.

This report would be incomplete without a reference to the cordial reception and the many courtesies extended by the Cuban Government and its officials to the delegates to the Conference. These included a reception given by the President of Cuba in the Presidential Palace, dinners given by the Secretary of State, by the Mayor of Habana, and by the President of the Conference, and official excursions to Mariel to visit sugar plantations and mills, to Triscornia to visit the new Cuban Immigrant Receiving Station established there, and visits to many Cuban manufacturing plants in and near Habana. The relations of the American delegates with their Cuban hosts and with their colleagues were pleasant and cordial to a degree. The American delegates also received cards from the Habana Country Club, the Habana Yacht Club and the American Club of Habana, and were the recipients of many other courtesies, both official and unofficial.

In closing, the Delegation would wish to express its appreciation of the helpful assistance and cooperation given it by the American Ambassador to Cuba and his staff. In particular, thanks, both official and personal, are due Mr. Williamson and Mr. Shields, the Disbursing Officer at Habana, for the extremely efficient arrangements made for the activities and work of the Delegation. The clerical force is to be commended for its spirit and its efficiency and the Delegation feels that its success—for it believes its mission to have been a success—was in large measure due to the assistance and support rendered it by its staff, by the American Embassy in Habana and by the cooperation it received from Washington.

Respectfully submitted,

For the Delegation, W. W. Husband , Chairman Henry Carter , Secretary


---
## [d363] The Secretary of State to the American Delegation The members of the delegation were: Charles Evans Hughes, chairman; Noble Brandon Judah; Henry P. Fletcher; Oscar W. Underwood; Dwight W. Morrow; Morgan J. O’Brien; James Brown Scott; Bay Lyman Wilbur; and Leo S. Rowe.
710.F002/191a

Washington , January 5, 1928 .

Sirs : The International Conference of American States to which you have been designated as representatives of our country is the sixth conference of this type to be held on the Western Hemisphere, covering a period of approximately forty years. It is an established principle of our international policy that: “Among the Foreign Relations of the United States as they fall into categories, the Pan American policy takes first place in our diplomacy.”

In this regard I wish to express your Government’s appreciation of the importance of the occasion and its sense of the responsibility you have undertaken in accepting appointment to represent it at a gathering where there will be present delegates from all the American Republics.

Our country has occupied a unique position with regard to the nations of Latin America. Our national individuality and independence were acquired before theirs, and when they achieved independence, they turned to us for moral guidance and support. But today and for many years past, they have stood alone, free, independent, self-reliant. The United States does not desire and in no sense can it be contemplated that any of the American peoples should be in a state of tutelage. We wish the fullest possible development of the national life of the republics of America in complete accord with their own national characteristics and aptitudes. If it is possible for us to assist them in any way, through our development and our achievements in science and industry, we shall be glad to extend such assistance in the most friendly manner, but we shall not proffer it unless it is desired. The policy of the Government of the United States towards the Republics of Latin America is one of mutually beneficial cooperation, and it is of paramount importance that the spirit of this policy be manifested in your attitude and action at the Conference.

To the task of these conferences, which in the first instance was consultative and recommendatory only, has been added that of approval. The programs of the various conferences, which dealt primarily with political, commercial and social matters included subjects concerning which an element of controversy was notably absent. Only those topics were inserted about which the American States held similar opinions and where a complete accord might be looked for through a friendly and frank exchange of views. In this connection, and as stated in the instructions to the American delegates to the Fifth Pan American Conference: Instructions not printed. “It should be borne in mind that the function of these Pan American Conferences is to deal so far as possible with non-controversial subjects of general interest, upon which free and full discussion may be had with the purpose and probability of arriving at agreement and cooperation. International questions which cause prolonged, and even bitter and controversial debate, are not infrequently, in their important aspects, of actual interest only to a small group of nations. It is believed that in this Conference the most fruitful results will be obtained if discussion is confined to those aspects of the various topics which are of interest to all the Republics. In this connection, you will bear in mind that the present Conference has not been called to sit in judgment on the conduct of any nation, or to attempt to redress alleged wrongs.”

It nevertheless is possible that attempts may be made to introduce for discussion subjects not incorporated in the program. For your guidance in such a contingency, there have been prepared a brief analysis of the political affairs of the several American Republics and an analysis of economic affairs, which are attached hereto as appendices Nos. 1 and 2.

As to results accomplished by the past Conferences, I am happy to state that projects have been endorsed and recommendations made on matters political, commercial and sanitary which have had a profound and far reaching influence on the course of events in this Hemisphere. Since the first International Conference of American States it is noteworthy that there has not been a declaration of war between any of the American States, although armed disturbances have occurred. The coming together of men typical of the best feeling and thought of all the republics brings about a gradual growth of mutual understanding upon which it is possible to build solid international friendships founded in justice, respect, good-will, and tolerance. It is for this that I desire you to give your studious attention not only to the particular subjects before the conference but also to the task of becoming imbued with the spirit which animates the American policy of the United States, so that the tone of your whole attitude and action shall be in harmony with that policy.

The Fifth International Conference of American States, held at Santiago, Chile, adopted a resolution naming the City of Habana as the seat of the Sixth International Conference, and provided that the Governing Board of the Pan American Union, together with the Government of the Republic of Cuba, would fix the date thereof. In conformity with this resolution the date of January 16, 1928, was fixed for the convening of the Sixth Conference, and the Governing Board of the Pan American Union prepared the program which was approved on April 12, 1927, and submitted to the governments of the states members of the Pan American Union which reads as follows:

Program of the Sixth International Conference of American States To Assemble at Habana, Cuba, January 16, 1928

Article I

pan american union

Topic 1 . Organization of the Pan American Union on the basis of a convention prepared by the Governing Board of the Pan American Union in accordance with the resolution adopted by the Fifth International Conference of American States on May 1, 1923.

Article II

matters of an inter-american juridical natures

Topic 1 . Consideration of the results of the Commission of Jurists which assembled at Rio de Janeiro. See Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , pp. 364 ff. Topic 2 . In view of the fact that the codification of international law has been entrusted to the Commission of Jurists which assembled at Rio de Janeiro, the commission has been recommended to give preferential attention to the study of “Methods for the pacific settlement of international disputes”; but if the commission should not have time to dispatch this part of its work, this topic will be considered included in the program and submitted to the consideration of the Sixth Conference. Topic 3 . The Commission of Jurists which assembled at Rio de Janeiro was entrusted, by resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States, with making comparative studies tending toward uniformity in civil law, commercial law, procedure law and other branches of private law; and the Governing Board has recommended that they give preferential attention to the preparation of projects of uniform legislation on: ( a ) Commercial law and other branches of legislation in which uniformity is possible and desirable; ( b ) Maritime law, for the preservation of life and property on board ship; ( c ) Principles to which the juridical status of companies organized in a foreign State should be adjusted, with a view to securing uniform standards; ( d ) Legislative measures for extending to women the same civil rights as those enjoyed by adult males; ( e ) Bases for determining the nationality of individuals with a view to eliminating the conflict of laws on nationality; ( f ) Legislation designed to prevent the loss of nationality by a woman because of marriage; ( g ) Recognition of the validity, by the authorities of the States represented at the Conference or which adhere to its conventions, of the acts and documents relating to the civil status of persons, estates, and contracts made by foreigners before the respective diplomatic and consular agents, and the preparation of a standard form for each of the aforesaid instruments; ( h ) Commercial arbitration; ( i ) Elimination of the differences in the juridical system relative to bills of exchange and checks, by means of an international agreement or uniform legislation; ( j ) Organization and regulation of the international service of checks and postal money orders; and ( k ) Regulation of the use of water power and other uses or applications of the waters of international rivers for industrial and agricultural purposes. If the commission should not have time to prepare these projects, this topic will be considered included in the program and submitted to the consideration of the Sixth Conference. Topic 4 . Frontier Police.

Article III

problems of communications

Topic 1 . Consideration of the results of the work of the Inter-American Commission on Commercial Aviation, provided for by resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States. Topic 2 . Regulation of international automotive traffic. Topic 3 . Means for facilitating the development of fluvial inter-communication between the nations of America. Topic 4 . ( a ) International regulation of railway traffic; ( b ) Consideration of the report of the Pan American Railway Committee. Topic 5 . Organization of a technical commission to study and recommend the most effective means for the establishment of steamship lines to connect the countries of America and to recommend measures for the elimination of all unnecessary port formalities. Topic 6 . Consideration of the results of the Pan American Highway Conference, which met at Buenos Aires in October 1925, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States. Topic 7 . Consideration of the results of the Inter-American Electrical Communications Conference, which met at Mexico City in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

Article IV

intellectual cooperation

Topic 1 . Establishment of a Pan American geographical institute which shall serve as a center of coordination, distribution, and dissemination of geographical studies in the American States and as an organ of cooperation between the geographical institutes of America for facilitating the study of boundary questions between the American nations. Topic 2 . Recommendation to the countries of America that in their legislation they levy a minimum duty on the importation of books and minimum postal rates on books and periodicals. Topic 3 . Recommendation to the countries, members of the Union, that have not yet done so, to publish geodetic, geological, agricultural maps, etc., which will give an idea of their natural resources, possibilities of development, and also of their means of communication. Topic 4 . Revision of the Convention on Intellectual Property signed at Buenos Aires (1910). Malloy, Treaties , 1910–1923, vol. iii , p. 2925; see also Foreign Relations , 1910, pp. 21 – 22 , 57 . Topic 5 . Establishment of scholarships and fellowships. Topic 6 . Exchange of professors and students. Topic 7 . To recommend the establishment of special chairs, supported or subsidized by the Government, for the study of the Spanish, English and Portuguese languages and of their respective literatures. Topic 8 . To recommend the establishment in the Universities of the countries, members of the Pan American Union, of special chairs for the study of the Commercial Legislation of the American Republics. Topic 9 . Consideration of the results of the Pan American Congress of Journalists, which met at Washington in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

Article V

economic problems

Topic 1 . Uniformity of legislation on consular fees. Topic 2 . Conference of chambers of commerce and, as a part of its program, organization of an inter-American chamber of commerce. Topic 3 . International aspects of immigration problems. Topic 4 . Revision of the conventions signed at Buenos Aires in 1910 Malloy, Treaties , 1910–1923, vol. iii , p. 2935. See also Foreign Relations , 1910, pp. 21 – 22 , 38 – 41 , and 49 . and at Santiago, Chile, in 1923, Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 297 . with a view to formulating changes which shall assure uniform and effective protection for trade-marks in the States members of the Pan American Union. Topic 5 . Consideration of the results of the Conference on Uniformity of Communication Statistics, which met at Lima in December, 1924, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States. Topic 6 . Consideration of the results of the standardization Conference which met at Lima on December 23, 1924, in accordance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States and the conference which met at Washington in 1927.

Article VI

social problems

Topic 1 . Consideration of the action taken by the American States in complying with the recommendations of the Fifth International Conference of American States on the Pan American Maritime Sanitary Code. Topic 2 . Consideration of the action taken by the American States in complying with the resolution on principles and procedure in public-health administration, approved by the Fifth International Conference of American States at its session of April 16, 1923. Topic 3 . Consideration of the results of the Conference on Eugenics and Homoculture which will meet at Habana in 1927, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States. Topic 4 . Consideration of the results of the Conference of Directing Heads of Public Health Services which was held at Washington in September, 1926, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States. Topic 5 . Consideration of the action taken by the countries of America for the organization and development of national Red Cross societies, and the results of the Pan American Red Cross Conference referred to in the resolution adopted by the Fifth International Conference of American States on April 12, 1923.

Article VII

reports on treaties, conventions and resolutions

Article VIII

future conferences

You will note that the program is divided into eight Articles, which in turn are subdivided into thirty-two Topics. For your convenience the Department of State has prepared instructions applying to this program, which are attached hereto. As the conference progresses developments on certain of the topics of the program may necessitate a modification of the instructions. In this case the Department will supply such further advice and instruction as may be necessary for your guidance.

The Governing Board of the Pan American Union has also prepared the Regulations for the Sixth International Conference of American States which were unanimously approved by the Governing Board at the meeting on November 3, 1926, and which are attached hereto as Appendix No. 3. For text of regulations, see Program and Regulations of the Sixth International Conference of American States , p. 5.

It will be noted in Article 24 of the Regulations governing the Conference, just cited, that the deliberations of the Conference shall be confined to such subjects as are contained in the Program, except when by a vote of two-thirds of the delegations the Conference decides to take under consideration a new matter submitted by one delegation and seconded by another. A motion to take under consideration a new subject shall be decided without debate. You will note, furthermore, that new subjects can be incorporated in the Program only at plenary sessions of the Conference.

Article 22 of these regulations prescribes the rules governing the attendance at the deliberations of the conference. Your attention is directed to the attached political memorandum and the advisability of excluding all applicants for official attendance at these sessions by non-American representatives.

Articles 6 to 8 of these regulations set forth the committee method of handling the business of the conference. The business of the last conference was greatly facilitated by a steering committee made up of the President of the Conference and the Chairman of each delegation with special powers over the calling of plenary sessions, program and general supervisory control. It is hoped a similar procedure may be followed in this conference.

Article I

pan american union

Topic 1 . Organization of the Pan American Union on the basis of a Convention prepared by the Governing Board of the Pan American Union, in accordance with the Resolution adopted by the Fifth International Conference of American States on May 1, 1923.

The Fifth Conference resolved to recommend to the Governments of the Republics of America the study of a project for the organization of the Pan American Union, in order that the Governing Board of the Pan American Union might present a draft of a Resolution or Convention to the Sixth Conference. In accordance with this resolution the Governing Board of the Pan American Union has prepared (consult pages 27 to 31 of the Special Handbook ) a Project of Convention organizing the Pan American Union, which will be submitted to the Sixth Conference.

In general it may be said that the United States Government approves of this Convention. However, certain of its provisions show a tendency to accord very broad powers to the Pan American Union and to invest it with a political character which might be considered beyond the scope of such an organization, or are otherwise undesirable. In this connection, your attention is directed to Articles III, VI, XIV, XV, and XVI.

It is desired that you shall suggest the modification of the second clause of Article III of the project of the Convention for the organization of the Pan American Union to read as follows: “A Director General, who shall have charge of the administration of the Pan American Union, with power to promote its most ample development, in accordance with the terms of this convention, with the regulations, and with the resolutions of the Board, to which body he shall be responsible. The Director General shall attend, in an advisory capacity, the meetings of the Governing Board, and of the Committees appointed by the Board for the purpose of giving such information as may be required. The Director General also shall attend in his official capacity the future International Conferences of American States. The expenses of the Director General and his assistants incurred through attendance at these Conferences shall be met out of the funds of the Pan American Union.”

Article VI, Paragraph 1, provides that the originals of diplomatic instruments signed at the International Conferences of American States, the minutes of their meetings, and all documents connected with the holding of the Conference, shall be placed under the custody of the Pan American Union. At present all original documents signed at International Conferences of American States are placed in the custody of the government in whose capital the Conference is held. Some advantages might be expected from having all conference minutes and documents collected in one place instead of scattered among various capitals, as is the case today. At the present time it is very difficult to ascertain what countries have ratified the various Conventions, and you may therefore support this Article.

Article XIV provides that the states members of the Union “in so far as their internal legislation permits, shall take measures for sending to the Library of the Pan American Union one copy of each work published in the country”. While it is not thought possible that the United States without legislative action can carry out the procedure contemplated in this Article it is thought that the clause reading “in so far as their internal legislation permits” is a sufficient safeguard that the United States is not assuming any obligation which it is unable to perform.

Article XV provides that each of the Government[s] members of the Union shall establish a committee composed of persons of experience in Pan American affairs, or an office attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to be entrusted with Pan American matters.

These committees or offices shall have the following duties: ( a ) To cooperate with their respective Governments to obtain ratification of treaties and conventions, and to give effect to the resolutions adopted by the International Conferences of American States. ( b ) To furnish the, Pan American Union promptly with the information it may need in the preparation of its work. ( c ) To present to the Union through the proper channels such projects as they may consider adapted to the purposes of the Union.

The establishment of a committee, such as that described above, would seem unnecessarily to expand the organization of the Pan American Union and its affiliated organizations. In a large measure such a committee would appear to duplicate the work of the national committees of the Inter-American High Commission. It is thought that the committees of the Inter-American High Commission, already organized, could well undertake the functions which it is intended the committee described in this Article shall undertake, and it is believed that if practicable the Inter-American High Commission might even be merged into the Pan American Union. If other nations members of the Pan American Union desire to establish such a new committee, there would of course be no objection on the part of the United States, but you should be careful not to commit the United States to follow their example. Neither does this Government feel the necessity for creating a new office attached to the Department of State and entrusted with affairs connected with the Pan American Union. This function is already fulfilled by the Division of Latin American Affairs, which acts as a liaison office between the Department of State and the Pan American Union. It is thought that the Division of Latin American Affairs of the Department of State can fulfill all the functions set forth in clauses a, b and c of Article XV quoted above.

Article XVI provides for the formation of a pension and retirement fund. The United States is disposed to encourage this plan, although, of course, any contributions to be made to it outside of the regular revenues of the Pan American Union would be subject to Congressional action.

Article II

Topic 1 . Consideration of the results of the Commission of Jurists which assembled at Rio de Janeiro. Topic 2 . In view of the fact that the codification of international law has been entrusted to the Commission of Jurists which assembled at Rio de Janeiro, the commission has been recommended to give preferential attention to the study of “Methods for the pacific settlement of international disputes”; but if the commission should not have time to dispatch this part of its work, this topic will be considered included in the program and submitted to the consideration of the Sixth Conference.

( Note : In connection with the following instruction, your attention is directed to Supplement ( b ), pages 1 and 2, attached) Post , p. 544 .

codification of public international law

[Here follows information on previous efforts taken by American States toward the codification of international law.]

On January 2, 1924, the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Pan American Union laid before the Board the following resolution: “Whereas, The Fifth International Conference of American States adopted a vote of thanks for the results achieved by the American Institute of International Law; and, “Whereas, One of the purposes for which the American Institute of International Law has been established is to secure a more definite formulation of the rules of international law; and, “Whereas, The codification of the rules of international law is the most important task entrusted to the International Commission of Jurists, and, “Whereas, The labors of the American Institute of International Law will be of great service to the International Commission of Jurists in the fulfillment of the task assigned to it. “Be it Resolved: “By the Governing Board of the Pan American Union to submit to the Executive Committee of the American Institute of International Law the desirability of holding a session of the Institute in 1924 in order that the results of the deliberations of the Institute may be submitted to the International Commission of Jurists at its meeting at Rio de Janeiro in 1925.” ( Am. Journal Int. Law , 1924, Vol. 18, p. 269).

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

In instructions given to the American delegates to the Conference at Rio de Janeiro, Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , p. 364 . the Department stated that “Codification is a clear, systematic and authoritative statement of existing law; it does not involve the framing of new legislation. The Delegates of the United States to the Congress of Jurists should not, therefore, participate in the drafting of new international legislation embodying changes in the existing systems of law of the Nations of the Western Hemisphere.” (File No. 710 C 2/211 b).

It would appear from the foregoing that the Commission of Jurists, and especially the American delegates, were to limit their activities to the codifying of International Law. Of the twelve projects on Public International Law which the Commission has recommended for consideration, The 12 projects are set forth in Report of the Delegates of the United States of America to the Sixth International Conference of American States , p. 9. three are hardly to be regarded as proper subjects for incorporation in a code of International Law. The Department has in mind project No. V, concerning the Exchange of Publications, Project No. VI, regarding Exchange of Professors and Students, and Project No. X having to do with Asylum.

There is attached a memorandum in which these twelve projects have been briefly analyzed and discussed (Appendix No. 6), Not printed. Generally speaking, those Articles which have not been mentioned are to be regarded as unobjectionable. None of the projects is free in its entirety from objection. In many cases the Commission of Jurists has set forth existing International Law; in others, however, it has set forth what it apparently has considered International Law should be. It is not believed that any one of the projects could be accepted in the form in which it has been presented. Most of them contain subjects which are either outside the realm of International Law or on which the practice of Nations has not been sufficiently uniform as to warrant the conclusion that it has crystallized into International Law. These have been specifically covered in the comments on the various Articles. While most of the projects afford a good working basis and, with certain changes, might be developed into an acceptable statement of existing International Law, it will be seen that considerable work will be required in order to render the drafts acceptable. It may well be that many of the objections pointed out in the attached memorandum can be cured in the deliberations of the Committee which may have the subject under consideration. It is doubted, however, whether a general conference, such as the Sixth Pan American Conference, will find it possible, with the large number of questions to be considered, to revise these drafts, without greatly prolonging its sessions, in such a way as to make them entirely acceptable.

It is not desired that the American delegates should show any disinclination to go forward with the codification of International Law, which has heretofore been supported by this Government, but rather that they should take the position that the magnitude and importance of the task would seem to require that the respective Governments be given the benefit of the views and criticisms, if any, of the Conference and that their revision and incorporation into treaty form be left to a Commission or Conference to be called at a later date.

Topics 1 and 2, Supplement ( a )

During the course of its sessions there were presented to the International Commission of Jurists by certain Delegates a series of socalled “Propositions”, which the Commission decided to submit to the Sixth International Conference of American States. The “Propositions” are printed on pages 2, 3 and 4 of the pamphlet in your possession entitled “International Commission of Jurists—Public International Law”.

For your guidance in any discussion of these “Propositions” that may take place, there has been prepared a Memorandum (Appendix No. 8) Not printed. which presents the views of this Government with respect to the several matters to which they relate.

Topics 1 and 2, Supplement ( b )

Topic 2 of Article II, which includes consideration of “Methods for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes”, and Article IV, topic 9, page 1, the resolution of the Pan American Congress of Journalists, bring before the Conference the question of arbitration of international disputes. You will notice by analysis of the treaties made between various Central and South American countries that as a whole these countries have gone a long distance upon the question of arbitration. The question was brought up at Santiago during the Fifth Pan American Conference. Those countries generally were not willing to enter into a general arbitration treaty which was less broad than the ones they now have. In other words, they said this would be a step backward. The Department believes, however, that a proposition to arbitrate any claim of right susceptible of judicial decision by application of the principles of law or equity, that is, a legal right under well established principles of international law or a legal right under a treaty, might be acceptable to the principal Central and South American countries.

Manifestly, the United States cannot agree to arbitrate purely political questions involving its domestic policy or any question which is purely within the jurisdiction of the United States and which does not infringe the legal right of foreign countries or the citizens thereof. I think it would be comparatively easy to draft a treaty which the United States could agree to and quite likely the Latin American countries would also agree to. It would be a step forward and, in my opinion, have great influence in Latin America. The main question is one of the construction of the Arbitral Tribunal. This has been discussed generally with Mr. Hughes. It would be better to have a panel chosen from the United States and the other members of the Latin American countries with some means of selecting a non-American arbitrator other than drawing by lot. Mr. Hughes made a very valuable suggestion—that if each country selected one or two arbitrators and they could not decide on a chairman or arbitrator, that he be a non-American and chosen by a special panel composed of members of The Hague Tribunal or some of them. I doubt very much if the Senate would ratify a treaty for arbitration unless the agreement for submission be submitted to the Senate. That has been the universal practice and I am convinced that it would have to be followed in this case.

matters of an inter-american juridical nature

(Private International Law)

Topic 3 .

One of the subjects on the agenda of the Sixth Pan American Conference is the codification of Private International Law. The Commission of Jurists which met in Rio de Janeiro in April, 1927, recommended for consideration by the forthcoming conference at Habana a projected code prepared by Dr. Bustamante, the Cuban delegate on the Commission of Jurists.

The Department attaches hereto a memorandum in which the provisions of the project are briefly analyzed and discussed (Appendix No. 7). Not printed. It will be seen that there are fundamental reasons why the United States could not agree to a code in the form of this project.

The first and most important obstacle to the preparation of a satisfactory code of Private International Law results from the difference between the system of jurisprudence obtaining in the United States, which had its origin in the English Common Law, and that obtaining in other American countries, which had its origin in the Roman Civil Law. It will be seen that the project here in question is based primarily on the theory of the law of nationality, whereas the system in the United States is based on the theory of territorial law, the principle of which is that the law in force in the territory shall apply to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction regardless of their nationality. Many of the provisions of the project are entirely foreign to our legal system. Others are so at variance with the principles of law established in this country as to render impossible their acceptance.

An additional reason why this Government could not subscribe to a code of this character is that a vast majority of the subjects covered are matters within the exclusive competency of the several States with which it would be contrary to the policy of the Federal Government to interfere. I have in mind such matters as birth, matrimony and divorce, paternity and filiation, adoption, guardianship, emancipation and majority, property and its various classifications, leases, annuities, partnerships, loans, bailments, contracts, questions of evidence and rules of procedure.

You can readily appreciate that any effort by the Federal Government to regulate such matters, except as an incident to the exercise of its powers under the Constitution, would give rise to the charge of encroachment upon the rights reserved to the several States. Some of the subjects such, for example, as nationality and naturalization, matters pertaining to public securities and commercial paper, transportation, insurance, bills of exchange, when they concern interstate or foreign commerce, also matters pertaining to ships and aircraft, offenses committed against the Government, extradition, bankruptcy, etc., are, of course, well within the purview of the powers of the Federal Government. Provisions of the project with respect to these subjects, however, are for the most part unacceptable to this Government because of the fact, as indicated above, that they are based primarily on the civil law which differs widely from the system of law to which we are accustomed.

The convention as a whole would be unacceptable to this Government. It will probably be found to be unacceptable to other countries represented at the conference. That there was by no means complete accord among the delegates on the Commission of Jurists is shown by the report (Appendix No. 5) of the American delegates, Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , p. 369 . from which it is understood that the project was approved provisionally in order that attempts at the codification of Private International Law should not prove abortive and the Sixth Pan American Conference fail to have before it for consideration any constructive project dealing with the subject.

You should take the position that while general principles governing some of the subjects covered by Dr. Bustamante’s project might conceivably be evolved in subsequent conferences, in view of the magnitude and importance of the subjects and the great divergence between the laws of the different American States much careful thought will be required for the formulation of rules which would be generally satisfactory.

Topic 3 ( h ). Commercial Arbitration.

The American Arbitration Association has recommended the proposal by the American Delegation of a resolution in the following terms: “That the Member States of the Pan American Union recommend to their respective legislatures the enactment of a law which will make valid, enforceable and irrevocable, a provision in any written contract relating to commerce, to settle by arbitration any controversy arising thereafter out of such contract; and which will permit the award, upon its confirmation by the court, to be treated as a judgment in an action.”

Although definite progress is being made in some of the Latin-American Republics in the application of the principle of commercial arbitration—notably in Brazil, Mexico, Chile and Argentina—and the practice has had a steady but slow development in the United States, it is not believed that a resolution making obligatory the settlement by arbitration of any controversy arising out of any contract relating to commerce would find the delegates from many of the Latin-American States in a receptive mood.

Even in the United States it has required many years of educational activities to convince American business men of the value of enforceable commercial arbitration of the type mentioned, and there is still considerable disapproval on the part of many business men and attorneys as to the advisability of inserting such clauses making arbitration on disputed points enforceable and irrevocable. The proceedings and reports of the American Bar Association evidence two distinct schools of thought in that authoritative body with respect to this matter.

It is not believed that business psychology, trade customs and legal systems in Latin-America can be readily and suddenly adapted to the theory of commercial arbitration contained in the United States Arbitration Act (Appendix No. 9) Not printed. which, together with the statutes in New York and New Jersey, as well as some other States marks the most advanced status of commercial arbitration in this country, and it is felt that any movement to bring about a more general use of arbitration in the Latin-American States should be effected through educational and voluntary methods.

Any endeavor by the American Delegation to have such a resolution adopted might be considered by certain Latin-American States as an attempt to force legislation upon them, and although such a resolution would be in keeping with recent practice in the United States, you are directed, should its presentation to the Conference be deemed advisable, to bring about its introduction by a delegation of some other State.

Topic 3 ( j ). Subject: Organization and Regulation of the International Service of Checks and Postal Money Orders.

[Instructions on this subject are omitted.]

Topic 4 . Frontier Police.

It is understood that this subject has been included in the agenda of the Conference at the instance of the Argentine Government, and that the discussion may follow the lines of the generalization of inter-American frontier agreements, such as the Argentine-Chilean and Argentine-Bolivian treaties of 1919.

It is the view of this Government that this question is primarily regional in that conditions along the various frontiers are not alike and hence must be met in accordance with the peculiar needs of each situation. This Government, therefore, feels that the end sought could best be obtained through separate conventions between the various bordering States rather than by a general agreement of all the American nations.

The United States would be affected only in so far as the policing of the frontier between this country and Mexico, and the boundary between the Canal Zone and the Republic of Panama are concerned. It is not considered desirable to enter into any arrangements with Mexico, or into any discussion with the Mexican delegates looking to the conclusion of an agreement on the subject of frontier police at this time. The so-called Smuggling Treaty with Mexico was recently allowed to lapse at the instance of the United States Government. See Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. iii , pp. 230 ff.

The boundary between the Canal Zone and the Republic of Panama is adequately policed, and satisfactory arrangements and understanding providing for cooperation between the police of the Zone and of the Republic already exist.

Article III

problems of communications

Topic 1 . Consideration of the results of the work of the inter-American Commission on Commercial Aviation, provided for by resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

In compliance with the resolution of the Fifth Conference, the Inter-American Commission on Commercial Aviation met at Washington in May, 1927, and approved certain conclusions and resolutions which were included in the Final Act of the Commission. The Governing Board of the Pan American Union then formulated a Project of Convention on Commercial Aviation, based on the results of the aforesaid Final Act, which is to be submitted for the consideration of the Sixth International Conference of American States. Copies of the Final Act of the Inter-American Commercial Aviation Commission, and the Project of Convention on Commercial Aviation are attached to the files of the Delegation. (Appendices Nos. 12 and 13). Not printed. It is highly important that this convention shall safeguard certain special arrangements which the Government of the United States already has concluded, or may in the future conclude, with other States and you are therefore directed to endeavor to have Article 31 of the Project of Convention on Commercial Aviation amended to read as follows:

Article 31

The right of any of the contracting States to enter into any convention or special agreement with any other State or States concerning international aerial navigation is recognized, so long as such convention or special agreement shall not impair the rights or obligations of any of the States party to this Convention, acquired or imposed herein; provided however that prohibited areas within their respective territories, and regulations pertaining thereto, may be agreed upon by two or more States for military reasons or in the interest of public safety. Such agreements, and all regulations pursuant thereto, shall be subject to the same conditions as those set forth in Article 5 of this Convention with respect to prohibited areas within the territory of a particular State.

While the remainder of the Convention on Commercial Aviation in its present form meets with the approval of the United States Government, nevertheless it is desired that you advance the following suggestions as being calculated to clarify and improve the text and prevent misunderstandings:

1. It is suggested that Article 3 be changed to read as follows: “Private aircraft shall be deemed to be all classes of aircraft with the following exceptions: “ a . Military aircraft, which embraces every aircraft owned, controlled, or operated by a contracting state in connection with its military or naval service thereof, or detailed for that purpose by competent military or naval authority. “ b . Aircraft owned, controlled or operated by a contracting state in connection with the administration of postal, customs, police, forestry, or other governmental services.”

It is not intended that you shall press for this change in Article 3 should you find that it encounters any serious opposition.

2. It is suggested that the words “signal of distress” be substituted for the words “danger signal” in Article 6 and that the nations signatory to this Convention signify their intention of following the system of signals of distress agreed upon in the International Convention relating to the regulation of aerial navigation signed at Paris on October 13, 1919 (Appendix No. 14), For text of treaty, see Malloy, Treaties , 1910–1923, vol. iii , p. 3768.

3. It is suggested that the words “and into” be inserted between the words “above” and “their” in Article 7.

4. You will suggest the addition to Article 12 of the following sentence: “After a State has filed a copy of such registrations it shall thereafter file monthly with every other State party to this Convention and with the Pan American Union, a copy of all new registrations containing all the information referred to in Articles 8 and 12 of this Convention and any cancellations of registrations made during the period covered.”

5. It is suggested that the last three lines of Article 15 of the Convention beginning with the words “Subject, however” be deleted.

6. It is suggested that the words “State authorities” in Article 19, paragraph 4, (line 5) be changed to read “customs and immigration authorities.”

7. It is suggested that the word “wholly” be inserted between the words “operations” and “within” in Article 23.

8. It is suggested that the following reading be substituted for Article 27: “The aircraft of all States shall have the right in cases of danger to all possible aid.”

9. It is suggested that the following paragraphs be added to Article 32: “Each contracting State shall exchange with every other contracting State within three months after the date of ratification of this Convention copies of its air traffic rules and requirements as to competency for aircraft commanders, pilots, engineers, and other members of the operating crew, and the requirements for airworthiness of aircraft intended to engage in international commerce. “Each contracting State shall deposit with every other State party to this Convention and with the Pan American Union three months prior to the date proposed for their enforcement any additions to or amendments of the regulations referred to in the last preceding paragraph.”

10. It is suggested that it would be beneficial if a provision could be included in the Convention giving the states, dominions and colonies of this hemisphere, not members of the Pan American Union, the privilege of adhering to this Convention if they should so desire.

11. It will be found that Articles 32, 33, 35 and 36, providing that the Pan American Union shall cooperate with the Governments of the contracting States, shall receive the ratifications and retain them in its archives, and shall give notice of the adherence or denunciation by one State to the other signatory States, grant to the Pan American Union a political character which it is not thought that such an organization should enjoy. This is especially true of Article XXXII. In this connection you are referred to your instructions in connection with the Project of Convention on the Pan American Union. The question of the participation of the Pan American Union provided for in this Convention will be determined by the manner in which the Convention organizing the Pan American Union is finally approved by the Sixth International Conference. Should no changes be made in the Convention organizing the Pan American Union none will be needed with respect to this feature of the Convention on Commercial Aviation, but should the sections of the former Convention authorizing the Pan American Union to act as custodian of the originals of diplomatic instruments not be approved, changes in Articles 33, 35, and 36 of the Convention on Commercial Aviation will be necessary.

Inasmuch as the resolutions and conclusions of the Inter-American Commercial Aviation Commission were not reached without some controversy between the delegates of the different nations represented, it is highly probable that the Convention will not be adopted at Habana without reopening some of the questions which were debated by the Commission in Washington last May.

With the exception of Article 31, which it is desired shall be amended in the manner suggested, you are authorized to approve of the convention on commercial aviation either in its present form or with any or all of the suggested changes specified above, but in the event that any further alterations are proposed you should request time to communicate with your Government for instructions before the question is put to a vote.

It is needless to remind you of the importance to this country of operating under a satisfactory international convention regarding Commercial Aviation; and of the necessity for taking especial care that this country is not compelled under any international convention to sanction procedure and practices which might jeopardize the safety of the Panama Canal.

Topic 2 . Regulation of international automotive traffic.

Automotive traffic in the United States is subject to regulation by the States and not by the Federal Government. The American delegation should give full consideration to this fact before taking or participating in any action on this subject. Any efforts to secure uniformity of regulation of international automotive traffic or the elimination of undesirable difficulties or formalities in connection there-with should nevertheless be considered as a laudable endeavor and receive the cordial support of the American delegation. However, such support must necessarily be limited to that consistent with the restrictions imposed upon participation in any final action taken by the Conference.

The United States Government would view with pleasure, as representing the views of the Conference with regard to this subject, the adoption of the pertinent portions of the report of the Highway Transport Committee of the American Section of the International Chamber of Commerce, as revised for use at the meeting of the International Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm in June 1927 and enclosed as Appendix No. 15 to these instructions. Not printed. Attention is directed to pages 14, 15 and 16 of the report which contain a discussion of the principles of highway finance, and to pages 43, 44 and 45 containing various recommendations with respect to traffic rules and regulations.

Topic 3 . Means for facilitating the development of fluvial intercommunication between the nations of America.

[Instructions on this subject are omitted.]

Topic 4 ( a ). International regulation of railway traffic.

[Instructions on this subject are omitted.]

Topic 4 ( b ). Consideration of the report of the Pan American Railway Committee.

As the result of a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States the Pan American Railway Committee was constituted by the governing board of the Pan American Union. This Committee at its several meetings considered various projects and after an exchange of views adopted the following resolution: “That the project of Mr. Briano and the suggestion of Mr. Verne L. Havens already presented, as well as those which may be presented hereafter, be submitted to the consideration of the American Governments. “That the countries of America be asked to indicate the modifications which they consider desirable to make in the proposed route through their respective territories. “That the interested countries indicate the interior ports or cities through which they desire the Pan American Railway to pass, so that the exploitation of this line may be carried out in relation to the navigable rivers. “That each country be asked to indicate the approximate route of the branch lines to connect with the proposed trunk lines. “That each country indicate whether it is willing to carry out with its means and resources the work of exploration and the direct surveys, or surveys by means of aero-photography which may be necessary, and that they specify the time at which they can send this to the Central Committee. “That each country be asked to indicate the form of financing which appears most desirable with respect to that portion of the line included within its borders, in order that the road may be constructed in the shortest possible time.”

As the subjects of this resolution are limited in that the countries of America are called upon merely to give consideration to said subjects it is desired that you approve said resolution and recommend that the participating States use their best efforts to further the work of the Pan American Railway Committee.

Topic 5 . Organization of a Technical Commission to Study and Recommend the Most Effective Means for the Establishment of Steamship Lines to Connect the Countries of America and to Recommend Measures for the Elimination of all Unnecessary Port Formalities.

In the past ten years there has been a very gratifying improvement in ocean transportation facilities between the countries of the western hemisphere, due in large measure to the necessities arising out of the increased volume of trade carried on between those countries. Statistical data on this subject appears in the foreign section of volume 2 of the 1927 Commerce Yearbook. This is now in the press but will be made available to the Delegation.

The question of improved ocean transportation and that of simplification of port formalities are matters that have been discussed at previous conferences. However, a technical commission, properly organized, might submit a more concise and practical presentation of the problems that are involved than has been the case heretofore. As further improvement is desired in this field you will manifest the interest felt by the United States in this subject and endorse any deserving project put before the conference with the view to increasing and improving steamship traffic.

Topic 6 . Consideration of the results of the Pan American Highway Conference, which met at Buenos Aires in October, 1925, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

The instructions relative to Topic 2 of Article III apply also to this Topic.

Topic 7 . Consideration of the Results of the Inter-American Electrical Communications Conference, which met at Mexico City in Compliance with a Resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

[Here follows a résumé of the proceedings of the Electrical Communications Conference: a similar résumé is printed in Bulletin of the Pan American Union (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1925), vol. lviii , p. 861.]

It is desired that you shall indicate that you deem it appropriate to treat the work accomplished at the Conference at Mexico City as preparation for the International Radiotelegraph Conference held at Washington in 1927, and also that you shall endeavor to bring about the adoption of a resolution by the Sixth International Conference of American States urging the several governments to ratify at the earliest possible date the International Radiotelegraph Convention and Regulations signed at Washington on November 25, 1927. Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , p. 288 .

Article IV

intellectual cooperation

Topic 1 . Establishment of a Pan American geographical institute which shall serve as a center of coordination, distribution and dissemination of geographical studies in the American States and as an organ of cooperation between the geographical institutes of America for facilitating the study of boundary questions between the American nations.

In connection with the establishment of such an institute careful consideration should be given to the complications which would be encountered in the many existing boundary disputes between the Latin American nations, which would doubtless render it difficult for the scientists of Latin America to enter into and carry out any cooperative plan because of political considerations which would have to be taken into account. At the present time there are no geographical institutions in America making a special study of boundary questions between the American nations except the American Geographical Society, which has long specialized in the subject and continues to do so in connection with its program of Hispanic-American research, now in its seventh year, and having to do with the creation of a great map of Hispanic-America on a scale of 1:1,000,000, to be published in 100 sheets. Since this society is in active communication with all other geographic societies throughout the world there is nothing lacking in the way of cooperation under existing arrangements.

It is desired that the American delegates should adopt a neutral though friendly position towards the plan provided for in this item of the agenda, making no commitments or offers in connection with it, and being especially careful to say nothing in connection with the boundary disputes or political considerations which might give offence to other nations. If a workable plan for the establishment of such an institute results from the labors of the Conference, it will then be time for the United States Government to consider to what extent it may desire to participate in the work of that institute.

Topic 2 . Recommendation to the countries of America that in their legislation they levy a minimum duty on the importation of books and minimum postal rates on books and periodicals.

This item contemplates changes in the tariff which can only be accomplished by legislative action. You should not oppose, however, the adoption of any reasonable resolutions which can properly be submitted to the United States Congress for such action as that body may desire to take.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Topic 3 . Recommendation to the countries, Members of the Union, that have not yet done so, to publish geodetic, geological, agricultural maps, etc., which will give an idea of their natural resources, possibilities of development, and also of their means of communication.

This proposal differs from that in Article IV, Topic 1, in that it depends upon the initiative of each country and not upon cooperation between different countries. In view of the fact that the material referred to in this item is either non-existent or very limited for most of the countries concerned it would seem advisable that such a recommendation should be supported by the American delegates and favorably acted upon by the Conference. Better maps of Latin American nations along the lines indicated should tend to promote a more intelligent understanding of those countries among themselves and in the United States.

The Department of Agriculture of the United States is especially interested in the matter of soil mapping and a proposed soil map of the world which the Fifth Commission of the International Society of Soil Science has it in mind to undertake.

Topic 4 . Revision of the Convention on Intellectual Property signed at Buenos Aires (1910).

According to the Department’s information, this Convention has been ratified by the United States, Brazil, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay and Uruguay. It was signed but not ratified by Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Mexico, Salvador and Venezuela. According to the Department’s information Peru ratified the Convention but did not communicate the act of ratification to the Argentine Government as contemplated by Article XVI of the Convention.

Article II should be amended so as to include in the protected works such forms of property as motion picture films, musical records, and player piano rolls. Numerous instances have come to the Department’s attention of the pirating of property of this character of American producers. The unauthorized use of motion picture films is particularly prevalent. While it has been possible in some instances to procure protection of the American owners through the application of local police regulations, these measures have not in all instances proved successful. It is highly desirable that the protection procured by this Convention be extended to cover this class of property.

It is desirable that Article III of the Convention be revised so as to require that there be included in the statement indicating the reservation of the property right the name of the copyright proprietor, the country of origin or the country or countries of first or simultaneous publication and the year of first publication.

Article IV should be amended so as to include among the means of reproduction the right to dramatize, to make or cause to have made motion picture films, the right to public performance by means of the radio or any other means and the right to reproduce by any method.

Inasmuch as there are now thirteen countries which have accepted this Convention, it would be inadvisable to substitute a new Convention which might require several years for ratification. It would be preferable to conclude a separate convention in which any amendments agreed upon are made, which when ratified would be made a part of the Convention of 1910, the present Convention remaining in force as the fundamental agreement. This comment is applicable also to the Trade-Mark Convention. Foreign Relations , 1933, vol. i , p. 297 .

Topic 5 . Establishment of Scholarships and Fellowships.

In the United States Federal control of education does not exist, whereas in the Latin American States such Federal control exists and has made possible the conclusion among them of various international conventions concerning educational matters.

You will bear in mind the constitutional limits imposed upon this Government in regard to this subject, but you will not oppose any agreement which may be of benefit to the other American Republics, even though its provisions should make ultimate action upon it by this Government impossible.

The growth in recent years in the movement for the establishment of scholarships and fellowships in American institutions of learning for the benefit of Latin American students has been very gratifying, and you may support any practical plan looking to the further development of this means of promoting mutual, intellectual and social understanding. (See Appendix 23) Not printed.

Topic 6 . Exchange of Professors and Students.

The same considerations apply with regard to this subject as to the preceding one regarding the establishment of scholarships and fellowships.

In addition, the matter of recognition of professional degrees is a matter controlled by the State governments and not one in which the Federal Government may interfere.

Topic 7 . To recommend the establishment of special chairs, supported or subsidized by the government, for the study of the Spanish, English and Portuguese languages and of their respective literatures.

In the United States the establishment of special chairs for instruction in specific subjects is left to the private initiative of the various universities and colleges, which are not subsidized or supported by the federal government, although many of them receive pecuniary aid from state governments. In general it may be said that the Spanish language and literature is widely taught in the United States, and in most of the larger colleges courses in Portuguese are also available. In general it may be asserted that the United States has gone far along this line.

Naturally an increase in the study of the English language and its literature in the Latin American countries will be a distinct advantage in bringing about a more intimate knowledge of this country in Latin America and you should accordingly look with favor upon the adoption of such a resolution as is forecast in this item. As this contemplates a procedure requiring in the United States legislative action and an appropriation by Congress you will of course say nothing which might encourage the hope that it will be adopted in this country. In many of the Latin American countries which maintain a government department of public instruction it is possible that special chairs might be established and supported by the Government through an executive decree. This would not, of course be the case in this country.

Topic 8 . To recommend the establishment in the Universities of the countries, members of the Pan American Union, of special chairs for the study of the commercial legislation of the American Republics.

In general it may be said that this is not a subject which lies within the scope of the United States Government, but you may lend such assistance as you may find possible during the discussion of this question.

Topic 9 . Consideration of the results of the Pan American Congress of Journalists, which met at Washington in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

A copy of the resolution of the First Pan American Congress of Journalists appears as Appendix No. 24. Not printed.

In general these resolutions appear to be unobjectionable. However, Resolution 4, which reads as follows: “Recommends the adoption of arbitration as a means of settling all disputes between the American Republics and with other nations, not only in case of political disagreements but in all those which in any way affect the interests of or harmony between the nations of the Western Hemisphere. It recommends that all the members of the Pan American Press not represented in this Congress adhere to this recommendation.”

appears to be broader in its scope than is appropriate for a Congress of this nature, and brings up a number of political questions which require very careful consideration. This subject should more properly be considered under Article II, Topics 2 and 3, and not in connection with a resolution of the First Pan American Congress of Journalists.

Resolution 15, which “Recommends that the Pan American Union extend the scope of its activities,” appears to be altogether too vague in its terms and subject to uncertain interpretations. This subject should more properly be considered in connection with Article I, Topic 1, on the organization of the Pan American Union.

If a motion is made formally to approve the resolutions of the First Pan American Congress of Journalists you should make an exception in the case of Resolution 15.

You may in your discretion propose to the Conference the desirability of holding further such congresses.

Article V

Topic 1 . Uniformity of legislation on consular fees.

This subject has on several occasions been considered by Pan American as well as other conferences. There is attached to the files for your information a full memorandum and classified statements of consular fees collected by the United States in Latin America and by Latin American countries in the United States. Not printed.

Uniformity of legislation on consular fees came up for discussion also at the Third Pan American Commercial Conference, held in Washington in 1927. That Conference recommended to the Governing Board of the Pan American Union that a Pan American Committee be created for the purpose of studying the simplification and standardization of consular procedure as to inter-American trade as far as that might be possible without interfering with the national interests of the respective governments. By a resolution adopted at a meeting of the Governing Board on June 6, 1927, the members of the Board were requested to recommend to their respective Governments the designation of representatives to serve upon a Pan American Committee and Monday, October 10, 1927, was designated as the date on which the Committee should convene in Washington. Among the subjects discussed by the Committee were that the consular fee be regarded as a service charge rather than as additional duty and that, pursuant to the recognized principle that the fee paid for certifying a shipping document constitutes a fee for a service rendered and should not represent a customs duty, consideration be given to the question of moderating and obtaining uniformity in the charges for the consular certification of such documents.…

. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

… After further discussion the Commission adopted a resolution as follows: “It is recommended that those countries represented in this conference decide that consular fees are to be considered as compensation for services rendered but not as an additional tax. “The reduction of consular fees to the lowest possible point compatible with the necessities of each country is recommended until such time as a uniform scale of charges is reached.”

In view of the history of the resolution finally adopted by the Commission and of the agreement of the Delegation of the United States to that resolution it appears that you should not attempt at the forthcoming Conference to advocate the adoption of principles which go beyond those agreed to by the Pan American Commission, unless after very careful preliminary consultations with the other Delegations it is convincingly shown that steps in advance of that position may successfully be advocated.

Topic 1, Supplement A . Pan American Commission on the Simplification and Standardization of Consular Procedure.

While the program of the Sixth International Conference of American States under the heading Article V, Topic 1, calls for consideration of the specific topic “Uniformity of Legislation on Consular Fees”, it is contemplated that the results of the Pan American Commission on the Simplification and Standardization of Consular Procedure—as a general subject—likewise may be submitted to the Conference. In this event the following instruction is furnished for your guidance:

“The United States approves, with the exceptions hereinafter mentioned, of the Resolutions adopted by the Pan American Commission on the Simplification and Standardization of Consular Procedure, and it is desired that you discreetly lend your influence to secure approval by the Conference of the work of the Commission. However, it is not believed advisable that the United States Government should appear as the party most interested in the adoption of the Resolutions.

Resolution X as passed by the Commission declares that consular fees are to be considered as compensation for services rendered and not as an additional tax, and includes a recommendation for the reduction of consular fees to the lowest point compatible with the necessities of each country. While the United States would like to see this resolution strengthened into a specific declaration against the practice of the collection of consular invoice fees on the basis of a percentage of the value of the shipments, in view of the fact that two-thirds of the American Republics actually collect consular invoice fees on a percentage basis, the probability is apparent that the Conference would not in any case approve without considerable discussion any resolution looking to the abolishment of this practice. The United States is disposed to accept the resolution as presented by the Commission provided no satisfactory opportunity arises for its amendment without endangering the success of the Commission’s work as an entirety. If an opportune occasion should arise, however, you may place the United States Government on record as being opposed to the system.

A reservation should be entered against that part of Resolution VI ( c ) which calls for the use of the metric system of weights and measures in consular invoices and makes all other systems subordinate thereto.”

Topic 2 . Conference of chambers of commerce, and as a part of its program, organization of an inter-American chamber of commerce.

The Department feels that any movement which will tend to draw commercial organizations together for the consideration and solution of international trade problems, and which will afford another opportunity of contact between the United States and the Latin American countries, should be encouraged. The United States is already a member of the International Chamber of Commerce whose permanent headquarters are in Paris, and maintains a national committee with an office in the Chamber of Commerce of the United States at Washington. Important commercial organizations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic and Guatemala hold membership in this international chamber, so the Sixth Pan American Conference might give thought to the existing International Chamber of Commerce in considering this matter.

Should a proposition be advanced for a Pan American Chamber of Commerce there would be no objection to adhering to such a resolution so long as provision was made for close cooperation between the International Chamber of Commerce and this proposed organization through one of the existing Chambers of Commerce already a member of the International Chamber at Paris.

The attitude of the American Chamber of Commerce with respect to this question appears as Appendix 25. Not printed.

Topic 3 . International Aspects of Immigration Problems.

The status of immigration as a question of purely domestic concern is one which appears to be generally admitted and is one which has been formally enunciated by the Government of the United States on numerous occasions. Moore’s Digest refers to this question in the following terms (Vol. 4, page 151): “The power to regulate immigration is an incident of the sovereign right to expel or exclude objectionable aliens. The exercise of the power in a particular country is governed by the constitution and laws. In the United States it belongs to the national government as part of its power to regulate commerce.”

Hyde defines it as follows (Volume 1, page 94.): “A State is acknowledged to enjoy the broadest right to regulate the admission of aliens to its territory. Declared Mr. Justice Gray in the course of the opinion of the Supreme Court in the case of Nishimura Ekiu v . United States: 142 U. S. 651 (January 18, 1892). “‘It is an accepted maxim of international law, that every sovereign nation has the power, as inherent in sovereignty, and essential to self-preservation, to forbid the entrance of foreigners within its dominions, or to admit them only in such cases and upon such conditions as it may see fit to prescribe.’ “The law of nations has not as yet forbidden a State to exercise largest discretion in establishing tests of the undesirability of aliens, and to that end, to enforce discriminations of its own devising. There is thus apparent a sharp distinction between the legal propriety and ultimate expediency of exclusion laws. A State may unwisely, although not unlawfully, exercise the full measure of its privilege.”

These definitions are supported by numerous judicial decisions and official utterances on the part of this Government which may be found in Moore, Volume 4, pages 151–161 et seq ., and in Hyde, Volume 1, pages 94–101.

As long as immigration to this country was practically unlimited, this doctrine excited little comment, and the Immigration Act of 1917 39 Stat. 874. providing qualitative tests for immigrants was regarded as a natural and normal expression of this attribute of sovereignty. However, with the passage of the Immigration Act of 1920 41 Stat. 593, 981, 1008. and more particularly with that of 1924 43 Stat. 153. which provided a quantitative control of immigration, it assumed a very vital importance, especially when it appeared that other nations in this hemisphere were considering following the example of the United States. It immediately became to the interest of emigration countries to endeavor to have immigration questions regarded as a matter of international concern and as a subject for international discussion.

The first serious effort to draw the United States into such discussions came in 1923 when Italy which was particularly affected by the United States policy of restricted immigration issued invitations for a general international conference on emigration and immigration to be held at Rome in 1924. See Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , pp. 115 ff. In accepting that invitation this Government stated in a memorandum sent to the Italian Embassy on May 10, 1923: ibid. , p. 117 . “In connection with any discussion of matters relating to immigration, in which representatives of this Government might participate, it has already been indicated that there would be necessarily certain limitations of such participation. The reception of immigrants within the United States is regarded wholly as a domestic matter, and the exclusive authority of Congress must be recognized. Consequently, when participating in a conference of the proposed nature, certain restrictions, obviously, would be incumbent upon any American delegates.”

and this was repeated in a later note to the Italian Embassy, dated October 4, 1923, Not printed. following an exchange of letters between Mr. Hughes and President Coolidge, in which the latter stated, under date of August 24, 1923: “Replying to your communication of August 22nd, relative to the invitation of the Italian Government to participate in a conference relative to immigration problems, I see no reason to vary the original intention of participating, on the understanding, of course, that such conference could not infringe on the province of the Congress.”

and these views also found expression in a note addressed to the French Embassy, dated October 2, 1923, Not printed. discussing certain questions in connection with the Rome Conference: “I beg to advise you that since the International Conference which is to take place in Rome—in which certain restrictions will be incumbent upon the American representatives due to the fact that the reception of immigrants within the United States is regarded wholly as a domestic matter in which the exclusive authority of Congress must be recognized—is to be a strictly technical one to exchange and clarify views on pertinent questions, this Government is unable to perceive the need for a preliminary conference.”

Recognition of the sole authority of Congress in immigration matters was further evinced in the Department’s instruction of December 26, 1923, to the American delegates to the Rome Conference Not printed. who were warned that their designation in nowise authorized them to take any action committing the Government of the United States.

On May 31, 1924, at the final session of the Rome Conference, the American Chief Delegate, the Honorable E. J. Henning of the Department of Labor, took occasion to enter upon the record of the proceedings of the Conference a formal statement of the position of the United States which indicated very plainly that this Government regarded immigration as a purely domestic question. Conference Internationale de l’Emigration et de l’Immigration—Rome, 15–31 Mai 1924 (Rome, Imprimerie de la Chambre des Députés), vol. ii , p. 454.

Following the adjournment of the Rome Conference, a Committee of Control was formed to undertake the task of “preparing” the next conference on emigration and immigration which is to be held in Habana in March, 1928. The Italian Government invited this Government to name a representative to this Committee but the Department decided against such a course and authorized the American Ambassador in Rome, Mr. Fletcher, under date of May 19, 1925, to address the following note to the Italian Government: “Matters relating to immigration have been so definitely regulated by the Congress of the United States, in particular by the Immigration Act of 1924, that it is impossible for this Government to signify its participation in an international conference on emigration and immigration until it has had opportunity to examine the program which is to be discussed. “While this Government has noted with satisfaction the assurances of the Italian Government that the Committee of Control will confine itself to the same matters which were included in the program of the first conference, and that the conference will have the same technical character as the first, nevertheless it is the feeling of this Government that until a concrete program for discussion has been submitted for its scrutiny it will hardly be possible for it to determine whether or not any useful purpose could be served by its participation. “Therefore until such a program has been submitted and until a definite decision has been reached with regard to the participation of this Government in the proposed 1927 conference, the Government of the United States feels that to name a representative to the, Committee of Control, a privilege which is limited to the governments accepting the invitation to take part in the 1927 conference, would be a step open to misconstruction and inconsistent with the practice of this Government in such matters.”

However, this note was not formally presented, although the Italian Government was apprised of its contents.

In the meantime Congress had actively asserted its authority over immigration matters and had passed the Immigration Act of 1924. This Act, as it will be recalled, involved the issue of Japanese exclusion which was made the subject of a brisk correspondence between the Japanese Ambassador and Mr. Hughes. See Foreign Relations , 1924, vol. ii , pp. 333 ff. However, throughout this correspondence the United States consistently maintained, and Japan explicitly recognized, immigration control to be a purely domestic question, Japan basing her protests upon the ground of race discrimination. In signing the Act of 1924, President Coolidge issued a statement on May 26, 1924, reading as follows: “In signing this bill, which in its main features I heartily approve, I regret the impossibility of severing from it the exclusion provision, which in the light of existing laws, affects especially the Japanese. “I gladly recognize that the enactment of this provision does not imply any change in our sentiment of admiration and cordial friendship for the Japanese people, a sentiment which has had and will continue to have abundant manifestation. “The bill rather expresses the determination of the Congress to exercise its prerogative in defining by legislation the control of immigration, instead of leaving it to international arrangements. It should be noted that the bill exempts from the exclusion provision Government officials, those coming to this country as tourists, or temporarily for business or pleasure, those in transit, seamen, those already resident here, and returning from temporary absences, professors, ministers of religion, students, and those who enter solely to carry on trade in pursuance of existing treaty provisions. “But we have had for many years an understanding with Japan, by which the Japanese government has voluntarily undertaken to prevent the emigration of laborers to the United States, and in view of this historic relation and of the feeling which inspired it, it would have been much better in my judgment, and more effective in the actual control of immigration, if we had continued to invite that co-operation which Japan was ready to give and had thus avoided creating any ground for misapprehension by an unnecessary statutory enactment. “That course would not have derogated from the authority of the Congress to deal with the question in any exigency requiring its action. There is scarcely any ground for disagreement as to the result we want, but this method of securing it is unnecessary and deplorable at this time. “If the exclusion provision stood alone, I should disapprove it without hesitation, if sought in this way at this time. But this bill is a comprehensive measure dealing with the whole subject of immigration and setting up the necessary administrative machinery. The present quota act of 1921 will terminate on June 30 next. It is of great importance that a comprehensive measure should take its place and that the arrangements for its administration should be provided at once in order to avoid hardship and confusion. “I must therefore consider the bill as a whole and the imperative need of the country for legislation of this general character. For this reason the bill is approved.”

Recently occasion arose at the Assembly of the Interparliamentary Commercial Conference at Rio de Janeiro for the United States to reassert its position regarding immigration. Certain proposals advanced by the Italian delegates regarding control of Italian emigrants on foreign soil impressed the South American delegates as threatening to infringe upon the sovereignty of their States and upon their exclusive control of immigration. For obvious reasons they looked to the United States to be the spokesman for the thesis of immigration as a matter of purely domestic concern. On September 9, 1927, Senator Robinson, who was attending the Conference at the request of Mr. Kellogg, addressed the Assembly as follows: “It has seemed to us, in view of the difficulties of this question and of the well-known differences of opinion that exist among the nations represented here, that it is but just and appropriate to present a fair and short outline of the position of our country as we understand it. “When the first Federal Census was taken in 1790, it disclosed in the then territory of the United States of North America a population of only 4,000,000. Our country opened wide its gates to immigrants from every land on earth. They came from the remotest parts of the world and entered into our citizenship and became supporters of our institutions; so that after the lapse of one hundred and twenty years, when the Census of 1920 was taken, the total population of the United States was disclosed to be more than 106,000,000—twentyseven times the population disclosed by the preceding Census which I have already referred to. We found it necessary and desirable to partly close our gates against immigrants from other lands. This has been accomplished through legislation enacted by the Congress of the United States. We sympathize profoundly with the problems and difficulties of the great countries of the old world which are distressed and disturbed by conditions respecting over-population. We realize that in a measure they are in the situation of the father or the mother who witnesses a son or daughter depart from his home to take residence among strangers, and just as any fond parent follows his child with his prayers and his benedictions, his hopes and his aspirations, so the people of the countries in which immigrants have their origin quite naturally have a feeling and desire to follow them with their assurances of assistance and protection. But it seems to me, Mr. President, that it is not inappropriate here to make clear to this Conference what many of the Delegates already know has been the result of the experience of the United States of North America respecting this question. We understand that under the principles of international law as commonly and generally accepted, every nation has the right if it chooses to exercise its power to exclude immigrants or admitting them to define the conditions under which they shall or may be admitted, and we understand that this principle of law is in conflict with the right of the country of origin to control the destiny of the immigrant after he has taken his place in a foreign land among strangers. “We therefore accept in the United States the doctrine that when one born under a flag finds it desirable to leave the home of his birth, the land of his nativity, to seek residence and citizenship under a new flag and in a strange land, that in doing so he necessarily submits himself to the authority of that flag and to the jurisdiction of the land of his adoption. We cannot settle here the fundamental differences which I have referred to respecting the subject of immigration. They are deep-seated, but permit me to add before taking my seat, that as a necessary result from the doctrine of international law which I have tried to make clear and which is well recognized by most of you, it follows that the country in which the immigrant takes his abode has the right and owes the duty to protect him and to promote his advancement and best interests in common with the citizens of the country as distinguished from immigrants, and that the country of origin cannot claim, under international law as accepted generally by mankind, the right to control him after he has taken up his residence in a foreign land. “This statement has been made not out of a desire to provoke controversy or to prolong the session of this conference. It has been made solely for the purpose of making clear to the Delegates the view point occupied by those who came here from the United States of North America. We are entirely content to have the convention take its action after hearing this statement.”

A perusal of the foregoing leaves no doubt of the position of this Government that control of immigration must be regarded as a matter of purely domestic concern, representing as it does the exercise of a sovereign right and that the authority of Congress in immigration matters is exclusive.

Accordingly, you should in any discussion on international aspects of immigration problems, be careful to note any tendency to call this doctrine into question and should, if necessary, be prepared to combat such a tendency by clear and unequivocal statements based on the historic position of the United States. For use in this respect, there are enclosed (Appendices 26, 27, 28) Not printed. memoranda relating to the immigration policy and history of the United States, the Italian invitation to participate in the Conference on Immigration and Emigration in 1927, and a list of certain correspondence regarding immigration.

It is possible that during the course of the Conference it may seem to you to be desirable to avoid all discussion of this Topic. This might be effected by pointing out that immigration and emigration matters are to constitute the sole subject matter of the March Conference in Habana. In this connection, and for your confidential information it may be stated that while the United States has not yet accepted the invitation to attend that Conference it will in all likelihood participate, in which case the Department’s instructions to the American Delegates will be based in essence upon the policy set forth above.

Topic 4 . Revision of the conventions signed at Buenos Aires in 1910 and at Santiago, Chile, in 1923, with a view to formulating changes which shall assure uniform and effective protection for trade-marks in the States members of the Pan American Union.

[Detailed instructions on the proposed amendments to convention of 1923 are omitted.]

Topic 5 . Consideration of the results of the Conference on Uniformity of Communication Statistics, which met at Lima in December, 1924, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

Topic 6 . Consideration of the results of the Standardization Conference which met at Lima on December 23, 1924, in accordance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States and the conference which met at Washington in 1927.

The resolutions of the First and Second Standardization Conferences are primarily of interest to the Department of Commerce, which will be charged with making them effective if they are accepted and acted upon by this Government. The Department of Commerce has expressed its approval of these resolutions and has recommended that the American Delegation support them. (There is attached hereto as Appendix No. 30 a copy of a letter from the Department of Commerce, dated July 26, 1927 with reference to this point). Not printed.

It is felt that the American Government can agree to the creation of the various committees contemplated in some of these resolutions since, while they are of an international character, they will, if they function at all, aim at encouraging and simplifying commerce between the United States and Latin America. In connection with the formal draft of the convention for the establishment of uniform specifications, however, it is provided that the High Contracting Parties bind themselves to support the national sections of the Inter-American High Commission with adequate personnel for carrying out the work with which it has been charged. Inasmuch as the Inter-American High Commission has never been established by a formal convention, and as the general subject of the usefulness of this organization has recently been under discussion, it does not seem desirable to assure its permanence by the adoption of a formal convention whereunder the High Contracting Parties bind themselves to support it.

It is desired that you shall point out that references to the Inter-American High Commission do not properly fall within the scope of this convention and that while there is no objection to charging the Commission with certain tasks by resolutions of the Conference, the High Contracting Parties cannot bind themselves by a convention to support an organization which has not yet been established by a convention. Consequently Article V of this convention should be stricken out and, if approved in substance by the Conference, be embodied in a separate resolution, and Article VI should be eliminated entirely and not acted upon in any way by the Conference.

If the question of the organization of the Inter-American High Commission by a definite convention should be raised, it is desired that you shall state that this will require careful consideration and recommend that it be referred to the next International Conference of American States. This will provide an additional opportunity to study the value of the services rendered by the Inter-American High Commission and the manner in which it carries out the tasks assigned to it by the resolutions of the First and Second Standardization Conferences.

Article VI

social problems

Topic 1 . Consideration of the action taken by the American States in complying with the recommendations of the Fifth International Conference of American States on the Pan American Maritime Sanitary Code.

This Code was presented to, and its ratification consented to and advised by the United States Senate and subsequently approved by the President of the United States under date of February 7 [ March 28 ], 1925. For text of convention, signed Nov. 14, 1924, see Foreign Relations , 1924, vol. i , p. 266 . Up to the present time other countries have ratified this Code as follows: Cuba, June 16, 1925; Costa Rica, June 20, 1925; Peru, July 16, 1925; Chile, October 13, 1925; Nicaragua, December 18, 1925; Honduras, March 27, 1926.

The First Pan American Congress of American Directors of Health which convened in Washington, September 28, 29 and 30, 1926, gave further consideration to this Code and proposed several amendments of minor importance. These amendments were taken up and discussed at the meeting of the Eighth Pan American Sanitary Conference at Lima, Peru, in October of this year, a report concerning which is in the Delegation’s files.

It is hoped that the Sixth Pan American Conference will urge those countries which have not as yet accepted this Code to do so. To this end the following resolution may be proposed by you: “The Sixth International Conference of American States resolves: “That provision having been agreed upon, ad referendum, for the withdrawal by any country, on one year’s notice, from the obligations of the Pan American Sanitary Code, and believing that the Code offers the best solution for the further cooperation of the Health Departments of the Signatory Powers in the matter of the promotion of hygiene and sanitation and the prevention of the spread of contagious disease in international commerce, it is urged that those countries which have not yet approved this Code, should do so at their earliest convenience.”

Topic 1, Supplement A.

If the other Delegations show an active and friendly interest in the discussion of the Pan American Sanitary Code, you are authorized to introduce the following resolution to the Conference. Its aim as appears in the preamble of the said resolution is the elimination of unnecessary delays to shipping in the ports of the Panama Canal.

Whereas , the Fifth International Conference of American States, held at Santiago, Chile, entrusted to the Pan American Sanitary Bureau the preparation of a Pan American Sanitary Code, and recommended its study, approval and adoption by the Seventh Pan American Sanitary Conference; and, Whereas , the Seventh Pan American Sanitary Conference, composed of the duly accredited representatives of 18 of the American Governments, after careful study and consideration, adopted and signed the Pan American Sanitary Code, in the form of an ad referendum treaty, on November 14, 1924; and, Whereas , the treaty has been ratified to date by the following governments:—United States, Cuba, Chile, Peru, Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica and Salvador, and, Whereas , the treaty provides an International Standard Form of Bill of Health, which was adopted as the standard form of Bill of Health that should be used by the signatory countries, and, Whereas , the vessels that transit the Panama Canal are, at times, delayed through the necessity for obtaining either a Bill of Health, or a sanitary visa from the Consul of each country that is included in their itineraries, thereby causing delay, expense, and a tendency toward stagnation of traffic in the Canal and its terminal ports: Now, therefore: Be it resolved , by the Sixth International Conference of American States, to recommend to the Governments of the American States the adoption of such measures as may be necessary and appropriate for the several Governments to authorize the quarantine officers at their respective ports to accept from the Panama Canal Zone without Consular Visas the International Standard Form of Bill of Health prepared by The Panama Canal authorities in accordance with the provisions of the Pan American Sanitary Code, in lieu of Consular Bills of Health and Consular Sanitary Visas as now required, whenever after due investigation any of said Governments shall find that it does not have consular representation in the ports of the Panama Canal, as hereinafter defined; that is, it is found impracticable to maintain consular offices so easily accessible and with consular officers on duty during such hours that vessels can at all times without delay in transit, procure the immediate issuance of the aforesaid Bills of Health and Consular Sanitary Visas; and, that such immediate issuance is recognized as a requirement of the extraordinary needs of international commerce through the Panama Canal in conformity with the interests of all the Governments of the American States. The foregoing recommendation is adopted in view of the satisfactory information supplied to the Conference concerning the excellent sanitary conditions now existing and constantly maintained on the Panama Canal Zone and in the cities of Panama and Colon, and because of the international obligation immediately to report the occurrence of disease, no sanitary menace can result.

Topic 2 . Consideration of the action taken by the American States in complying with the Resolution on principles and procedure in public health administration, approved by the Fifth International Conference of American States at its session of April 16, 1923.

The Treasury Department of this Government has written to the Department of State stating that there have been no essential changes in the general plan of health administration in the United States since the date of the Fifth International Conference of American States when the above Resolution was passed. The following information contained in the same letter from the Treasury Department may be submitted by you to the Sixth Conference if the situation warrants it:

[The letter has been omitted.]

As a means of advancing the development of public hygiene as a profession, you are requested to submit the following resolution to the Conference: “That it reiterate the recommendation of the Fifth Pan American Conference of American States with regard to the interchange of health officers, a program for the training of personnel, permanent tenure of office of persons employed in the more important position[s] of departments of health, and so forth, the recommendation having been expressed in the following terms: “That each country be urged to consider a program which will include the following features: “1. The full recognition by appropriate training, adequate salaries, security of positions and social esteem of the profession of public hygiene as a special career essential to the welfare of the nation. “2. The establishment of courses of training for public health personnel, or the educating of selected individuals at the expense of the Government in institutions in other countries. “3. The encouragement of visits of its health officers to other countries and the welcoming in return, of the representatives of the health organizations of other nations.”

Topic 3 . Consideration of the results of the Conference on Eugenics and Homoculture which will meet at Habana in 1927, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

As this Conference is not scheduled to meet until December, 1927, no instruction can be prepared.

Topic 4 . Consideration of the results of the Conference of Directing Heads of Public Health Services, which was held at Washington in September, 1926, in compliance with a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States.

The First Conference of National Directors of Public Health of the American Republics met in the city of Washington in September, 1926. As a result of resolutions passed by this Conference, the Government of Peru has created a Permanent Commission for the Study and Eradication of Malaria; the Government of Ecuador’ is carrying out a rat flea survey in a number of Ecuadoran cities, and the reporting of communicable diseases received a new impetus. The Pan American Sanitary Bureau has expressed the hope that these reports will continue to improve.

The Conference of National Directors of Public Health likewise approved, for the consideration of the Eighth Pan American Sanitary Conference, the series of propositions, resolutions, and recommendations which are printed in the document issued by the Pan American Union entitled “Conclusions of the First Pan American Conference of National Directors of Public Health”, enclosed herewith as Appendix No. 31. Not printed.

The Eighth Pan American Sanitary Conference was held at Lima, Peru, in October 1927 and was participated in by delegates from the United States of America, whose report (Appendix No. 32) is enclosed herewith Not printed. together with the Final Act of the Eighth Pan American Sanitary Conference (Appendix No. 33). Not printed. The results of the Conference will be discussed at the Sixth International Conference of American States at Habana, and it is desired that with respect to this subject you shall be guided primarily by the counsel of your Technical Adviser, Dr. John D. Long.

Your especial attention is, however, invited to the resolution relative to the creation of Ministries of Health, and to the resolutions permitting the calling together of the Board of Directors and the creation of the position of Traveling Representative. With respect to the former, it is believed that the creation of a Ministry of Health is a matter of national rather than of international concern; and with respect to the latter, the approval of which presumably would entail larger appropriations toward the upkeep of the Pan American Sanitary Bureau, you should bear in mind the necessity for action by the Congress of the United States on all matters involving the expenditure of public funds.

Topic 5 . Consideration of the action taken by the countries of America for the organization and development of national Red Cross Societies, and the results of the Pan American Red Cross Conference referred to in the resolution adopted by the Fifth International Conference of American States on April 12, 1923.

In conformity with a resolution proposed by the American Delegates at the Fifth International Conference of American States, successful Pan American Red Cross Conferences were held at Buenos Aires in 1923 and at Washington in 1926. To the results of those conferences, contained in their Final Acts (Appendix No. 34), Not printed. you may lend your approval.

It is probable that one of the other nations represented at the Conference will present the following resolution approving of the Red Cross work: “The Sixth International Conference of American States, Notes with satisfaction that, in pursuance to a resolution of the Fifth International Conference of American States at Santiago, successful Pan-American Red Cross conferences have been held in Buenos Aires in 1923 and in Washington in 1926, under the auspices of the League of Red Cross Societies. Expresses its satisfaction that the American Governments have uniformly taken action to accord the necessary recognition and support to their respective national Red Cross organizations, And resolves: 1. to request the Pan American Union to continue its assistance in the development of the Red Cross movement in the Americas. 2. to invite the attention of the governments represented at the Conference to the importance of the program of the Red Cross in time of peace in the promotion of health, the prevention of disease and the mitigation of suffering from disaster or other cause, and to the advisability of according due recognition and support to their respective national Red Cross organizations in carrying out this program. 3. to approve the continuation of the series of Pan-American Red Cross conferences, and particularly the Third Conference, which has been invited to meet at Rio de Janeiro in 1930 or 1931.”

To this resolution you may also lend your support and approval.

Article VII

reports on treaties, conventions, and resolutions

There is enclosed (as Appendix No. 35) Not printed. for your information a memorandum of the action that has been taken by this Government with respect to the one Treaty, the three Conventions, and the sixty-nine Resolutions effected at the Fifth International Conference of American States.

In conclusion :

The continuation and development of friendship, mutual understanding, and sympathy, among the nations of the Western Hemisphere are the ends which the United States believes the Sixth International Conference of American States can further and it is hoped that you will use your best efforts toward the accomplishment of this purpose.

I am [etc.]

[File copy not signed]

[Appendix 1] Special Political Memorandum The past year has seen the development of a vigorous anti-American propaganda throughout Latin America based on charges of “imperialism” and characterized by violent criticism of the relations existing between the United States and Mexico and the American policy in Nicaragua. For the most part the Latin American Governments have refrained from participating in this propaganda, which has been carried on by private individuals and private organizations created expressly for that purpose, and in the press. Nevertheless, it is possible that an effort may be made by some delegates to the Sixth Pan American Conference to bring up controversial matters which the United States would not consider appropriate for a gathering of this nature, and it is not improbable that in the course of their remarks certain delegates may attack the policy of the United States Government towards Latin America with special reference to its relations with Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama and Haiti. Every effort should be made to have the topics discussed at the Conference confined to those on the pre-arranged agenda, or such additional topics as do not involve any discussion or criticisms of the foreign policy of this or any other country. At the Santiago Conference in 1923 certain delegates brought up subjects of a controversial nature on their own responsibility, without instructions from their governments. Upon being informed of the actions of their delegates those governments promptly repudiated them. It is hoped that nothing of this sort will occur at Habana, but the possibility and the way it was met in 1923 should be borne in mind. It is possible that an effort may be made to suggest the formation of an American League of Nations or a League of Latin American Nations, or the creation of an American Permanent International Court, projects upon which the United States would not look with sympathy. Detailed instructions for your guidance in the event that all or any of these topics are brought up for discussion are included hereafter. The United States can not enter into any discussion at Habana of matters of purely domestic concern, such as its immigration and tariff acts, or of its foreign policy or relations with individual countries, since these are considered to be subjects which can properly be discussed only between the nations concerned and not in an open forum of nations not directly affected. The United States desires to assist the Latin American countries in every possible way acceptable to and desired by them, but it does not desire to urge its assistance upon them [nor is it contemplated that the independence of any of them shall be in the slightest degree infringed]. Brackets appear in original document. The policy of the United States is one of mutually beneficial cooperation and it is of paramount importance that the spirit of this policy be manifested in your attitude and action at the Conference. [To this end the United States will place at the disposal of the Conference all the information in its possession drawn from the wide experience and great achievement of this country, to assist the Latin American nations in solving their various problems.] Brackets appear in original document. In general, your attitude should be to favor the free expression of views by the delegates of the various countries and to support only those proposals which are of common interest and which merit the unanimous approval of the American republics. During the time that has elapsed since the close of the Fifth Pan American Conference there have been many developments of vital importance for Pan Americanism, and while the relations between the Latin American Republics and the United States and among these republics themselves have not undergone any extreme changes, nevertheless this period has been marked by the development of certain tendencies which are worthy of notice. [Detailed information concerning Mexico, Central American Treaties, Honduras, Nicaragua, Tacna-Arica, Haiti, Dominican Republic, Colombia-Peru, Ecuador, and Argentina has been omitted.]

[Appendix 1a] Supplementary Matters Not on the Agenda But Which May Be Proposed for Consideration at the Conference Under Article 24 of the Regulations Pan American League of Nations At the Fifth Conference at Santiago in 1923 the agenda contained an item: “Consideration of measures tending toward closer association of the Republics of the American Continent with a view to promoting common interests.” This topic was proposed by Uruguay and was intended to provide the basis for discussion of a project to create an association of American States in this hemisphere similar to the existing League of Nations. The Uruguayan delegation at Santiago during the early sessions of the Conference let it be known that it was not their intention to press the consideration of this topic. A resolution was subsequently passed by the Conference which read as follows: “ Resolved: “1. To entrust to the governing board of the Pan American Union the special task of studying the bases which may be proposed by one or more of the Governments of the Republics of this continent to make closer the association between said Republics with the object of promoting the common interests of all. “2. To entrust to the same governing board the special task of studying the bases which may be proposed by one or more of the Governments of the Republics of America relative to the manner of making effective the solidarity of the collective interests of the American Continent.” The Pan American Union inquired of the States, members of the Union, whether there were any proposals relative to these subjects which they desired to submit to the governing board of the Pan American Union for study as provided by the resolution. No proposals were received by the Union, and therefore no action was taken in accordance with this resolution. It is improbable that the Uruguayan plan for the creation of an association of American nations will be brought up at the Sixth Pan American Conference in the form in which it was to have been proposed at Santiago. Nevertheless, it is not improbable that an effort will be made to promote discussion of this subject and some more or less detailed project may be submitted to the Conference. The United States would not view with favor the inclusion of this subject in the agenda and should such a proposal be made, you are instructed to vote against it. However, if it should be included by a two-thirds vote you will be guided in any discussion which results by the following views of the Department, included in the instructions to the American delegates to the Fifth Conference: “A proposal to establish an American League of Nations with a formal organization and specific guaranties would probably encounter in this country difficulties similar to those that were met when the proposal to participate in the League of Nations was submitted. Even if it were possible to obtain an agreement which would embody such a plan, it is not probable that it would be ratified by this Government. “On the other hand, the Government of the United States is most hospitable to the consideration of measures tending to the maintenance of peace and stability in Latin America and ensuring a basis for beneficent cooperation. This end can be attained most readily and without engendering a futile controversy over a proposal for an organization similar to that of the League of Nations, if attention be directed to the fundamental purposes of international institutions of the sort contemplated. These may be said to be: “First. Judicial settlement of justiciable disputes; “Second. Appropriate means of conciliation. “Third. Conference. “With respect to the first, it is not believed to be desirable to establish an American Permanent International Court. There would seem to be no reason why a permanent organization of this sort should be established here to rival the Permanent Court of International Justice at The Hague, and the difficulties in establishing, in view of the relations of the Latin American States, a satisfactory method of selecting the judges of an American Permanent Court would be very great. What would seem to be needed, in order to promote judicial settlement of international controversies in this hemisphere is an improved plan for arbitral settlements. In this way controversies of which disposition could be more advantageously made by an American tribunal could be referred to a tribunal established for the purpose in accordance with the accepted principles of arbitral procedure. It should be remembered in this connection that five of the Latin American Republics, to wit, the Republics of Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador, have at Washington concluded a Convention for the establishment of a Central American Tribunal. Conference on Central American Affairs, Washington, December 4, 1922–February 7, 1923 (Washington, Government Printing Office, 1923), p. 296. The plan of this Convention, a copy of which is attached to the files of the delegation, should be carefully studied and it may be that a similar plan would meet the requirements of judicial settlement of controversies between all the Latin American States. According to this plan a permanent list of jurists, with prescribed qualifications, is to be established from which the Tribunal may be constituted as provided in the, Convention when a controversy has not been settled through diplomatic agencies or some other method of arbitral or judicial determination has not been approved. If measures are taken to add to existing facilities an appropriate plan for the arbitration of justiciable controversies, the first object in view will be suitably met. “The mechanism of conciliation can best be provided, it is believed, through a Commission of Inquiry. The historic relation of the Latin American Republics should be borne in mind and too rigid a scheme for conciliatory measures or mediation should not be attempted. Again reference may be made to the convention signed by the representatives of the Central American Republics at the Washington Conference for the establishment of Commissions of Inquiry. The United States is a signatory to this Convention. Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 321 . Provision is made for the appointment of the nationals of the Contracting Powers to form a permanent list of Commissioners of Inquiry. This Convention is in general a unification of the Conventions which the Government of the United States concluded with the Central American Governments in 1913 and 1914, Treaties for the advancement of the general peace were signed with Costa Rica, Feb. 13, 1914 ( Foreign Relations , 1914, p. 171 ); with Guatemala, Sept. 20, 1913 ( ibid. , p. 331 ); with Honduras, Nov. 3, 1913 ( ibid. , 1916, p. 389 ). Treaties were also signed with Nicaragua, Dec. 17, 1913, and with Salvador, Aug. 7, 1913, but never went into force. and the purpose is to facilitate settlement of the dispute by an impartial inquiry into the facts. It is also provided that as soon as the Commission of Inquiry is organized it shall at the request of any of the parties to the dispute have the right to fix the status in which the parties must remain in order that the conditions may not be aggravated and matters may remain in the same state pending the rendering of the report by the Commission. “With respect to the third object, that of Conference, it would seem that the continuance of the present plan of holding Pan American Conferences would adequately afford the desired opportunities for interchanges of views and the discussion of matters of common interest. There is no special advantage in creating machinery which is either unnecessary or too elaborate. It is a mistake to attempt to commit nations in advance with respect to their action in unknown contingencies, aside from disputes of a justiciable nature, as such attempts either are abortive or lead to disappointment, but it is highly important that every facility for conference should be provided. “The more important need is the arrangement for cooperation in technical services, for the coordination of expert investigation, for facilities for negotiations leading to uniformity of action where that is desirable, and for the promotion of the vital interests of health and education. This Government strongly favors any arrangements which may be effective to these ends.” Prohibition of the Sale or Export of Arms and Munitions of War and Prevention of the Transit of Arms and Munitions Which Are Not Destined for Governments Such proposals would require legislation by the Congress to make them effective (and it is doubtful whether such legislation could be obtained). This Government would undoubtedly desire to discourage the exportation of arms for the purpose of fomenting revolution but it is doubtful if legislation could be enacted in this country going beyond the existing provisions of law which enable the Executive in an appropriate case to declare an embargo. Whatever may be said with respect to the merits of such proposals it is important that this Government should not be in a position of entering into agreements which it has reason to believe it would have difficulty in making effective through the necessary legislative action. An Agreement to Respect the Territorial and Political Integrity of the Latin American Nations Such an obligation would be quite acceptable to this Government, which has frequently given public and emphatic assurances that it does not covet the territory of any other nation. (Any obligation, however, not to intervene under any circumstances in the internal affairs of another country or not to go to war until after the pronouncement of an arbitral award, while commendable so far as the general purpose in view is concerned, would be likely to encounter opposition in this country as inconsistent with the constitutional authority of Congress and thus would give rise to unnecessary controversy. The object can be obtained, it is believed, by the adoption of suggestions already made for an Arbitral Tribunal and Commissions of Inquiry.) This Government could not, of course, undertake to limit or bind its action in future unknown contingencies regarding the measure of protection which it might deem it incumbent upon it to exert on behalf of American citizens and property endangered by revolution or other civil turmoil in a foreign country. You will of course understand that should this Government be obliged thus to afford protection to its nationals abroad its action would, as in the past, be limited to this object alone. When this object has been obtained and the danger is removed, the forces of the United States would of course be withdrawn. This has been the traditional policy of the United States. Definition of the Monroe Doctrine It is not the desire of this Government that the Monroe Doctrine should be discussed at the Conference. The views of the Department as set forth for the instruction of the delegates to the Fifth Conference and repeated here for your guidance, arenas follows: In the view of this Government, that Doctrine has no place in the discussions of the Conference as it is essentially a national policy of the United States. It is not a part of international law nor is it a “regional understanding”,—to refer to the inept phrase used in the Covenant of the League of Nations. While conditions have changed, and the attitude of the non-American Powers does not at this time give rise to apprehension with respect to aggression on their part as against at least the stronger Latin American Republics, still the Monroe Doctrine, however infrequent or limited may be the necessity of its application, should be maintained in its integrity and no action should be countenanced by this Government which would in the slightest degree impair its efficacy. Note may be taken of the content of this Doctrine. Properly understood, it is opposed ( a ) to any non-American action encroaching upon the political independence of American States under any guise, and ( b ) any acquisition by any non-American Power of any territorial control over any American soil by any process whatever. It may be observed that the United States is uninfluenced even by the willingness or desire of any American State to yield any transfer of its territory or to submit to any form of political control or influence of a non-American State. In maintaining its position, the United States has been governed primarily by its own interests, involving its conception of what was essential to its security and its distinctive position in this hemisphere. Its unselfish and friendly regard for its American neighbors has had a potent influence and should never fail of recognition in an estimate of our traditional policy, but the controlling consideration has been one of national interest. In maintaining and applying the Monroe Doctrine the United States has commonly avoided concerted action with other States, especially European States. Nor has the Government of the United States been disposed to enter into an arrangement with States of this hemisphere for the purpose of safeguarding them against conduct which would be regarded by this Government as in violation of the Monroe Doctrine. The essential character of the Doctrine itself has led to the taking of this attitude which it is believed should be maintained. The nature of the Doctrine should not be altered, its strength weakened or its effect diminished by any concert. On the other hand, it should always be remembered that the Monroe Doctrine thus fully maintained as a national policy of the United States, carries with it no suggestion which threatens in any proper sense the just independence, or the political integrity of the American States; much less does it involve any thought of action inimical to their security or interest. On the contrary, it has received a constantly widening recognition on the part of the Latin American peoples, as a bulwark of their independence, safety and progress. So far as the Doctrine may be deemed to impinge upon their freedom in submitting to the control or influence of non-American States, it constitutes a safeguard of their liberty and security. The United States has not, and does not intend to use, this national policy for the purpose of conserving any other national interest than its own essential security. The United States seeks no territory; it does not seek to establish any state of tutelage with respect to any American Republic; it has no desire to aggrandize itself at the expense of its Latin American neighbors or to promote selfish interests in diminution of their own. It earnestly desires a common prosperity. There is thus nothing in the Monroe Doctrine which is opposed to Pan American cooperation. It establishes the necessary and most hopeful bases of that cooperation. The United States seeks to promote its commerce with Latin American States and to aid in their development to the end that all may have their appropriate share in these mutually helpful efforts in the advancement of civilization. During the visit of Secretary of State Hughes to Brazil, See Foreign Relations , 1922, vol. i , pp. 656 ff. The four speeches made by the Secretary of State were published in Addresses in Brazil Delivered by the Hon. Charles Evans Hughes, Secretary of State, September, 1922 (Washington, The Pan American Union, 1922). and on the occasion of the dedication of the site for the American Centennial Monument at Rio de Janeiro, on September 8, 1922, the view[s] of this Government were thus expressed: “We shall also be glad to have this monument associated in the thought of our friends with a true appraisement of our North American ideals and aspirations. You, my fellow countrymen of the United States, know full well how sincerely we desire the independence, the unimpaired sovereignty and political integrity, and the constantly increasing prosperity of the peoples of Latin America. We have our domestic problems incident to the expanding life of a free people, but there is no imperialistic sentiment among us to cast even a shadow across the pathway of our progress. We covet no territory; we seek no conquest; the liberty we cherish for ourselves we desire for others; and we assert no rights for ourselves that we do not accord to others. We sincerely desire to see throughout this hemisphere an abiding peace, the reign of justice and the diffusion of the blessings of a beneficent cooperation. It is this desire which forms the basis of the Pan American sentiment.” Recent efforts, which there is no occasion to criticize so long as they are kept within their proper sphere, to bring Latin American States into closer contact with non-American Powers make it important that there should be no sacrifice through such endeavors of essential American interests. There should be no yielding to the suggestion of the control or influence of non-American Powers in the settlement of political questions of a distinctively American nature, or of the establishment by non-American Powers of territorial or political rights over American territory. There is, as John Bassett Moore has declared, an “American System based upon the distinctive interests which American countries have in common.” He adds: “To the extent to which Europe should become implicated in American politics, or to which American countries should become implicated in European politics, this distinction would necessarily be broken down, and the foundations of the American system would be impaired; and to the extent to which the foundations of the American system were impaired, Pan Americanism would lose its vitality and the Monroe Doctrine its accustomed and tangible meaning.” (J. B. Moore, Principles of American Diplomacy , 1918, x – xi .) This Government does not approve the creation with non-American States of relationships which are to be deemed hostile to the Monroe Doctrine and, it must also be recognized that there are the greatest difficulties in proposing a policy, which would be capable of safe expression in a Pan American agreement, touching matters which fall within the scope of the Monroe Doctrine. No arrangement should be entered into, or resolution agreed to, which could possibly be interpreted as curtailing in any way the application by the United States of the Monroe Doctrine. There should be no opening for the limitation of its action in that application through acquiescence in any arrangement whereby an American State could accept non-American control of its territory or political action. No opportunity should be given to a non-American State through any Pan American agreement to seek to impair the position which the United States has won through its assertion of its national policy. This Government has no objection to the adoption of resolutions, if this course is desired by the Latin American Republics, asserting their opposition to all attempts at aggression or invasion of their rights by non-American Powers. It is not deemed to be probable that proposals for a definite alliance would meet with the favor of the Conference. Such proposals should not be encouraged by the delegates from the United States. If it were proposed that if the rights of an American nation were threatened by the unjust and aggressive action of a non-American Power, the American Republics should communicate with one another fully and frankly in order to reach an understanding concerning the measures to be taken, jointly or separately, to meet the exigencies of the particular situation, there would be no objection on the part of this Government provided always that freedom of action on the part of the United States under the Monroe Doctrine were completely reserved. Representation of Spain ( or Other European Countries ) by Unofficial Observers at the Sixth Conference You are instructed to oppose any suggestion which may be made for the representation of Spain, Portugal, France, Italy or any other country not a member of the Pan American Union, to be represented at the Conference by an Unofficial Observer. The Pan American Conferences are strictly conferences of American States, held to discuss matters of especial and peculiar importance to the nations of the Western Hemisphere and it would obviously not be possible or proper to have other states represented at these conferences even by unofficial observers who would take no part in the discussions and would not even vote. Should there be no necessity for discussing matters affecting only the American nations there would be no reason for these conferences; and should there be a necessity for discussing matters of world wide concern or affecting non-American countries the need would be for some other form of conference of wider scope. For the discussion of questions affecting nations in both hemispheres there are many international conferences at which both European and American States are represented and at which world wide problems are discussed. But as there are also problems pertaining especially to this hemisphere, these Pan American conferences are held. The United States entertains the friendliest feelings towards all the European countries and its action in opposing their representation at the Conference, even by unofficial observers, should not be considered as showing any lack of friendliness for them. It is clear that if they were represented the conferences would cease to be purely Pan American conferences. Furthermore, if one non-American power should be represented there would be no reason why others who have possessions in this hemisphere, or who bear the relation of a “mother country” to one or more of the American nations, should be excluded. It would be difficult to say that one non-American country should be represented and not any other, and in any case the presence of one non-American country would change the character of the conference, which would no longer be a conference of purely American States to discuss purely American problems. Transfer of the Pan American Union From Washington to Some Other Capital There have been frequent rumors that a proposal will be made at the Sixth Pan American Conference to transfer the seat of the Pan American Union from Washington to the capital of some Latin American nation. Panama, Santo Domingo and Uruguay have been mentioned specifically. It is said that this action would be based on the theory that in Washington the Pan American Union is too much influenced by the State Department and dominated by the United States. Also that the Pan American Union containing as it does a great majority of Spanish-speaking countries should have its seat in a Spanish-speaking capital. The Department does not believe that any serious effort will be made to adopt such a plan at the Sixth Conference. If a suggestion is made to include this question among the agenda it would seem desirable that the United States delegates, while being careful not to express their approval, should not, unless absolutely necessary, take a leading part in opposing it. It is felt that some of the Latin American delegates will see the disadvantages of opening this question and the advantages of maintaining the Union in Washington; … … A number of arguments against such a change will readily occur to you, among others: 1). The eminent suitability of the present Pan American building in Washington, which was constructed on land donated by the United States, at a cost of about $850,000, the entire amount being contributed by the well known philanthropist Andrew Carnegie. This building could not be duplicated in another locality for anything like its original cost. 2). The advantages which the United States offers as a center of information on all subjects connected with the advancement of human knowledge and welfare. This country contains the headquarters of many organizations working for world improvement in sanitary, engineering, economic and social matters. 3). The fact that Washington is the only capital on the American continents at which all Latin-American nations constantly maintain a representative. Canada The International Conferences of American States, commonly called the Pan American Conferences, are, as their name implies, conferences of American political entities to consider and discuss matters of special importance to the States of the western hemisphere. Should there be no need to discuss matters affecting the States of this hemisphere there would be no reason to hold such conferences, and, on the other hand, should there be a necessity of discussing topics and problems of world wide concern, or having a relation at least to other political entities not included in the western hemisphere, the necessity would be not for a conference of American States but for some other form of conference of different scope. The Pan American Conferences are essentially conferences of governments and not of mere geographical groups or territorial units. Being conferences attended by the official representatives of Governments, they necessarily reflect the exigencies and policies of the Governments participating. If colonies, possessions or dominions, whose foreign relations are controlled by European States, were represented in these conferences, the influence and policies of European Powers would be injected into the discussion and disposition of questions affecting the political entities of this hemisphere. Whatever value such conferences would have it would not be that attaching to a conference distinctively American. Should Canada be proposed as a Member of the Pan American Union, you will be guided by the oral instructions given by the Secretary of State to the Delegation at its meeting at the Department of State on December 28, 1927. League of Nations Reference may here be made also to the participation, which has been informally suggested, of representatives of the League of Nations in the Pan American Conference. It should be understood that no disparagement or criticism of the League of Nations is intended, when it is observed that the Pan American Conference is organized upon a distinct and separate basis. The scope of the League of Nations is intended to be world-wide and a number of American States are members of the League and are thus able to express their point of view on matters of world-wide import which come before the attention of the Council and the Assembly of the League respectively. The Pan American Conference exists because of the distinct interests of American States which, without antagonism to any world relationship, makes it desirable for them to confer with respect to the problems which especially relate to States of this hemisphere. There is, of course, not the slightest objection for cooperation with the technical services of the League of Nations through the exchange of reports and information, and reciprocal advantage may thus appropriately be taken of statistics and reports of investigation. Participation of representatives of the League of Nations in the Pan American Conference, however, would bring to the Conference the viewpoints and policies of the States who are members of the League of Nations and are not American States and thus fundamentally alter the nature of the Conference itself. The scope of the Pan American Conference is defined by Pan American interests and aims and if its usefulness is to be preserved, the integrity of the Conference as an exclusively American Conference should be maintained.

[Appendix 2] Special Economic Memorandum Trade between the United States and Latin America has shown a steady increase during the period which has intervened since the Fifth Conference. Exports from the United States to the Latin American countries in 1923 amounted to $693,000,000, and in 1926 to $882,000,000, showing an increase of about 27 per cent. Imports into the United States from the Latin American countries in 1923 amounted to $1,050,000,000, and in 1926 to $1,104,000,000, showing an increase of about 5 per cent. Thus the total trade of the United States with the Latin American countries amounted in 1923 to $1,744,000,000, and in 1926 to $1,986,000,000, or an increase of about 14 per cent. In 1923 this trade with the Latin American countries constituted 21.9 per cent of the total world trade of the United States, and in 1926 21 per cent, the Latin American share of the United States total trade decreasing in spite of the great gain in Latin American trade because of the increase in trade between the United States and other parts of the world. During this entire period the visible balance of trade was in favor of the Latin American countries to a very large extent. Trade with the United States amounts to about 36 per cent of the total trade of the combined Latin American countries. Cuba ranks first among the countries of Latin America, not only in imports from but in exports to the United States. Our imports of merchandise from Cuba in 1926 were valued at $250,600,000, and our exports at $160,488,000. The amount of United States capital invested in Cuba is between $1,250,000,000 and $1,500,000,000. Moreover, a large amount is spent in the island annually by tourists from the United States. From these figures it is apparent that Cuba presents a broad field for the extension of American manufactured exports. The past five years have witnessed an unprecedented flow of American capital to Latin America, our total investment in that field being now estimated at $4,800,000,000, of which $1,250,000,000 to $1,500,000,000 are invested in Cuba. While the Latin American governments and people in general recognize the advantages derived from the use of this capital, which permits them to develop their natural resources; improve their means of communication; and create municipal improvements and sanitary works; nevertheless a growing uneasiness has lately been manifested throughout Latin America lest this dependence on the American financial market may lead to some form of economic domination, or even, eventually to armed intervention. It is possible that this feeling may be expressed at the Sixth Pan American Conference. Should this be the case you will, while refraining from committing this Government as to what action it might or might not have to take to protect American holders of foreign securities in unforeseen contingencies, make it plain that Americans investing their money abroad seek only that justice and fair treatment to which creditors are entitled by universally accepted principles of law and that the United States Government expects that such fair treatment will be accorded them and asks no more.


---
## [d364] Convention Regarding Commercial Aviation, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text, only, printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, Feb. 20, 1931 (legislative day of Feb. 17, 1931); ratified; by the President, Mar. 6, 1931; ratification of the United States deposited with the Government of Cuba, July 17, 1931; proclaimed by the President, July 27, 1931.
Treaty Series No. 840

Habana , February 20, 1928

The Governments of the American Republics, desirous of establishing the rules they should observe among themselves for aerial traffic, have decided to lay them down in a convention, and to that effect have appointed as their plenipotentiaries:

[Here follows list of names of plenipotentiaries.]

Who, after having exchanged their respective full powers, which have been found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following:

Article I

The high contracting parties recognize that every state has complete and exclusive sovereignty over the air space above its territory and territorial waters.

Article II

The present convention applies exclusively to private aircraft.

Article III

The following shall be deemed to be state aircraft: a ) Military and naval aircraft; b ) Aircraft exclusively employed in state service, such as posts, customs, and police.

Every other aircraft shall be deemed to be a private aircraft.

All state aircraft other than military, naval, customs and police aircraft shall be treated as private aircraft and as such shall be subject to all the provisions of the present convention.

Article IV

Each contracting state undertakes in time of peace to accord freedom of innocent passage above its territory to the private aircraft of the other contracting states, provided that the conditions laid down in the present convention are observed. The regulations established by a contracting state with regard to admission over its territory of aircraft of other contracting states shall be applied without distinction of nationality.

Article V

Each contracting state has the right to prohibit, for reasons which it deems convenient in the public interest, the flight over fixed zones of its territory by the aircraft of the other contracting states and privately owned national aircraft employed in the service of international commercial aviation, with the reservation that no distinction shall be made in this respect between its own private aircraft engaged in international commerce and those of the other contracting states likewise engaged. Each contracting state may furthermore prescribe the route to be followed over its territory by the aircraft of the other states, except in cases of force majeure which shall be governed in accordance with the stipulations of Article 18 of this convention. Each state shall publish in advance and notify the other contracting states of the fixation of the authorized routes and the situation and extension of the prohibited zones.

Article VI

Every aircraft over a prohibited area shall be obliged, as soon as this fact is realized or upon being so notified by the signals agreed upon, to land as soon as possible outside of said area in the airdrome nearest the prohibited area over which it was improperly flying and which is considered as an international airport by the subjacent state.

Article VII

Aircraft shall have the nationality of the state in which they are registered and can not be validly registered in more than one state.

The registration entry and the certificate of registration shall contain a description of the aircraft and state, the number or other mark of identification given by the constructor of the machine, the registry marks and nationality, the name of the airdrome or airport usually used by the aircraft, and the full name, nationality and domicile of the owner, as well as the date of registration.

Article VIII

The registration of aircraft referred to in the preceding article shall be made in accordance with the laws and special provisions of each contracting state.

Article IX

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation must carry a distinctive mark of its nationality, the nature of such distinctive mark to be agreed upon by the several contracting states. The distinctive marks adopted will be communicated to the Pan American Union and to the other contracting states.

Article X

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation shall carry with it in the custody of the aircraft commander: a ) A certificate of registration, duly certified to according to the laws of the state in which it is registered; b ) A certificate of airworthiness, as provided for in Article 12; c ) The certificates of competency of the commander, pilots, engineers, and crew, as provided for in Article 13; d ) If carrying passengers, a list of their names, addresses and nationality; e ) If carrying merchandise, the bills of lading and manifests, and all other documents required by customs laws and regulations of each country; f ) Log books; g ) If equipped with radiotelegraph apparatus, the corresponding license.

Article XI

Each contracting state shall every month file with every other state party to this convention and with the Pan American Union, a copy of all registrations and cancellations of registrations of aircraft engaged in international navigation as between the several contracting states.

Article XII

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation (between the several contracting states) shall be provided with a certificate of airworthiness issued by the state whose nationality it possesses.

This document shall certify to the states in which the aircraft is to operate, that, according to the opinion of the authority that issues it, such aircraft complies with the airworthiness requirements of each of the states named in said certificate.

The aircraft commander shall at all times hold the certificate in his custody and shall deliver it for inspection and verification to the authorized representatives of the state which said aircraft visits.

Each contracting state shall communicate to the other states parties to this convention and to the Pan American Union its regulations governing the rating of its aircraft as to airworthiness and shall similarly communicate any changes made therein.

While the states affirm the principle that the aircraft of each contracting state shall have the liberty of engaging in air commerce with the other contracting states without being subjected to the licensing system of any state with which such commerce is carried on, each and every contracting state mentioned in the certificate of airworthiness reserves the right to refuse to recognize as valid the certificate of airworthiness of any foreign aircraft where inspection by a duly authorized commission of such state shows that the aircraft is not, at the time of inspection, reasonably airworthy in accordance with the normal requirements of the laws and regulations of such state concerning the public safety.

In such cases said state may refuse to permit further transit by the aircraft through its air space until such time as it, with due regard to the public safety, is satisfied as to the airworthiness of the aircraft, and shall immediately notify the state whose nationality the aircraft possesses and the Pan American Union of the action taken.

Article XIII

The aircraft commander, pilots, engineers, and other members of the operating crew of every aircraft engaged in international navigation between the several contracting states shall, in accordance with the laws of each state, be provided with a certificate of competency by the contracting state whose nationality the aircraft possesses.

Such certificate or certificates shall set forth that each pilot, in addition to having fulfilled the requirements of the state issuing the same, has passed a satisfactory examination with regard to the traffic rules existing in the other contracting states over which he desires to fly. The requirements of form of said documents shall be uniform throughout all the contracting states and shall be drafted in the language of all of them, and for this purpose the Pan American Union is charged with making the necessary arrangements amongst the contracting states.

Such certificate or certificates shall be held in the possession of the aircraft commander as long as the pilots, engineers and other members of the operating crew concerned continue to be employed on the aircraft. Upon the return of such certificate an authenticated copy thereof shall be retained in the files of the aircraft.

Such certificate or certificates shall be open at all times to the inspection of the duly authorized representatives of any state visited.

Each contracting state shall communicate to the other states parties to this convention and to the Pan American Union its regulations governing the issuance of such certificates and shall from time to time communicate any changes made therein.

Article XIV

Each and every contracting state shall recognize as valid, certificates of competency of the aircraft commander, pilots, engineers and other members of the operating crew of an aircraft, issued in accordance with the laws and regulations of other contracting states.

Article XV

The carriage by aircraft of explosives, arms and munitions of war is prohibited in international aerial navigation. Therefore, no foreign or native aircraft authorized for international traffic shall be permitted to transport articles of this nature, either between points situated within the territory of any of the contracting states or through the same even though simply in transit.

Article XVI

Each state may prohibit or regulate the carriage or use, by aircraft possessing the nationality of other contracting states, of photographic apparatus. Such regulations as may be adopted by each state concerning this matter shall be communicated to each other contracting state and to the Pan American Union.

Article XVII

As a measure of public safety or because of lawful prohibitions, the transportation of articles in international navigation other than those mentioned in Articles 15 and 16 may be restricted by any contracting state. Such restrictions shall be immediately communicated to the other contracting states and to the Pan American Union.

All restrictions mentioned in this article shall apply equally to foreign and national aircraft employed in international traffic.

Article XVIII

Every aircraft engaged in international traffic which enters the air space of a contracting state with the intention of landing in said state shall do so in the corresponding customs airdrome, except in the cases mentioned in Article 19 and in case of force majeure , which must be proved.

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation, prior to its departure from the territorial jurisdiction of a contracting state in which it has landed, shall obtain such clearance as is required by the laws of such state at a port designated as point of departure by such state.

Each and every contracting state shall notify every other state party to this convention and the Pan American Union of such airports as shall be designated by such state as ports of entry and departure.

When the laws or regulations of any contracting state so require, no aircraft shall legally enter into or depart from its territory through places other than those previously authorized by such state as international airports, and the landing therein shall be obligatory unless a special permit, which has been previously communicated to the authorities of said airport, is obtained from the competent authorities of said state, in which permit shall be clearly expressed the distinctive marks which the aircraft is obliged to make visible whenever requested to do so in the manner previously agreed upon in said permit.

In the event that for any reason, after entering the territorial jurisdiction of a contracting state, aircraft of another contracting state should land at a point other than an airport designated as a port of entry in that state the aircraft commander shall immediately notify the nearest competent authority and hold himself, crew, passengers and cargo at the point of landing until proper entry has been granted by such competent authority, unless communication therewith is impracticable within twenty-four hours.

Aircraft of one of the contracting states which flies over the territory of another contracting state shall be obliged to land as soon as ordered to do so by means of the regulation signals, when for any reason this may be necessary.

In the cases provided for in this article, the aircraft, aircraft commander, crew, passengers and cargo shall be subject to such immigration, emigration, customs, police, quarantine or sanitary inspection as the duly authorized representatives of the subjacent state may make in accordance with its laws.

Article XIX

As an exception to the general rules, postal aircraft and aircraft belonging to aerial transport companies regularly constituted and authorized may be exempted, at the option of the subjacent state, from the obligation of landing at an airdrome designated as a port of entry and authorized to land at certain inland airdromes, designated by the customs and police administration of such state, at which customs formalities shall be complied with. The departure of such aircraft from the state visited may be regulated in a similar manner.

However, such aircraft shall follow the normal air route, and make their identity known by signals agreed upon as they fly across the frontier.

Article XX

From the time of landing of a foreign aircraft at any point whatever until its departure the authorities of the state visited shall have, in all cases, the right to visit and examine the aircraft and to verify all documents with which it must be provided, in order to determine that all the laws, rules and regulations of such states and all the provisions of this convention are complied with.

Article XXI

The aircraft of a contracting state engaged in international air commerce shall be permitted to discharge passengers and a part of its cargo at one of the airports designated as a port of entry of any other contracting state, and to proceed to any other airport or airports in such state for the purpose of discharging the remaining passengers and portions of such cargo and in like manner to take on passengers and load cargo destined for a foreign state or states, provided that they comply with the legal requirements of the country over which they fly, which legal requirements shall be the same for native and foreign aircraft engaged in international traffic and shall be communicated in due course to the contracting states and to the Pan American Union.

Article XXII

Each contracting state shall have the right to establish reservations and restrictions in favor of its own national aircraft in regard to the commercial transportation of passengers and merchandise between two or more points in its territory, and to other remunerated aeronautical operations wholly within its territory. Such reservations and restrictions shall be immediately published and communicated to the other contracting states and to the Pan American Union.

Article XXIII

The establishment and operation of airdromes will be regulated by the legislation of each country, equality of treatment being observed.

Article XXIV

The aircraft of one contracting state engaged in international commerce with another contracting state shall not be compelled to pay other or higher charges in airports or airdromes open to the public than would be paid by national aircraft of the state visited, likewise engaged in international commerce.

Article XXV

So long as a contracting state shall not have established appropriate regulations, the commander of an aircraft shall have rights and duties analogous to those of the captain of a merchant steamer, according to the respective laws of each state.

Article XXVI

The salvage of aircraft lost at sea shall be regulated, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, by the principles of maritime law.

Article XXVII

The aircraft of all states shall have the right, in cases of danger, to all possible aid.

Article XXVIII

Reparations for damages caused to persons or property located in the subjacent territory shall be governed by the laws of each state.

Article XXIX

In case of war the stipulations of the present convention shall not affect the freedom of action of the contracting states either as belligerents or as neutrals.

Article XXX

The right of any of the contracting states to enter into any convention or special agreement with any other state or states concerning international aerial navigation is recognized, so long as such convention or special agreement shall not impair the rights or obligations of any of the states parties to this convention, acquired or imposed herein; provided, however, that two or more states, for reasons of reciprocal convenience and interest may agree upon appropriate regulations pertaining to the operation of aircraft and the fixing of specified routes. These regulations shall in no case prevent the establishment and operation of practicable inter-American aerial lines and terminals. These regulations shall guarantee equality of treatment of the aircraft of each and every one of the contracting states and shall be subject to the same conditions as are set forth in Article 5 of this convention with respect to prohibited areas within the territory of a particular state.

Nothing contained in this convention shall affect the rights and obligations established by existing treaties.

Article XXXI

The contracting states obligate themselves in so far as possible to cooperate in inter-American measures relative to: a ) The centralization and distribution of meteorological information, whether statistical, current or special; b ) The publication of uniform aeronautical charts, as well as the establishment of a uniform system of signals; c ) The use of radiotelegraph in aerial navigation, the establishment of the necessary radiotelegraph stations and the observance of the inter-American and international radiotelegraph regulations or conventions at present existing or which may come into existence.

Article XXXII

The contracting states shall procure as far as possible uniformity of laws and regulations governing aerial navigation. The Pan American Union shall cooperate with the governments of the contracting states to attain the desired uniformity of laws and regulations for aerial navigation in the states parties to this convention.

Each contracting state shall exchange with every other contracting state within three months after the date of ratification of this convention copies of its air-traffic rules and requirements as to competency for aircraft commanders, pilots, engineers, and other members of the operating crew, and the requirements for airworthiness of aircraft intended to engage in international commerce.

Each contracting state shall deposit with every other state party to this convention and with the Pan American Union three months prior to the date proposed for their enforcement any additions to or amendments of the regulations referred to in the last preceding paragraph.

Article XXXIII

Each contracting state shall deposit its ratification with the Cuban Government, which shall thereupon inform the other contracting states. Such ratification shall remain deposited in the archives of the Cuban Government.

Article XXXIV

The present convention will come into force for each signatory state ratifying it in respect to other states which have already ratified, forty days from the date of deposit of its ratification.

Article XXXV

Any state may adhere to this convention by giving notice thereof to the Cuban Government, and such adherence shall be effective forty days thereafter. The Cuban Government shall inform the other signatory states of such adherence.

Article XXXVI

In case of disagreement between two contracting states regarding the interpretation or execution of the present convention the question shall, on the request of one of the governments in disagreement, be submitted to arbitration as hereinafter provided. Each of the governments involved in the disagreement shall choose another government not interested in the question at issue and the government so chosen shall arbitrate the dispute. In the event the two arbitrators cannot reach an agreement they shall appoint another disinterested government as additional arbitrator. If the two arbitrators cannot agree upon the choice of this third government, each arbitrator shall propose a government not interested in the dispute and lots shall be drawn between the two governments proposed. The drawing shall devolve upon the Governing Board of the Pan American Union.

The decision of the arbitrators shall be by majority vote.

Article XXXVII

Any contracting state may denounce this convention at any time by transmitting notification thereof to the Cuban Government, which shall communicate it to the other states parties to this convention. Such denunciation shall not take effect until six months after notification thereof to the Cuban Government, and shall take effect only with respect to the state making the denunciation.

In witness whereof , the above-named plenipotentiaries have signed this convention and the seal of the Sixth International Conference of American States has been hereto affixed.

Perú: Jesús M. Sálazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay; Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda.

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro .

Mexico: Julio García, Fernando González Roa, Salvador Urbina, Aquiles Elorduy.

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Héctor David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guatemala: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia.

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadra Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutiérrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vázquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jiménez.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi.

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Díaz León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Peynado, Tulio M. Cestero, Jacinto R. de Castro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernandez Cartaya, Arístides de Aguero Bethencourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.

reservation of the dominican republic

The delegation of the Dominican Republic records, as an explanation of its vote, that upon signing the present convention it does not understand that the Dominican Republic dissociates itself from conventions it has already ratified and which are in force.


---
## [d365] Contention Regarding the Status of Aliens, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text, only, printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, with exception of articles 3 and 4, Apr. 16, 1930 (legislative day of Apr. 14, 1930); ratified by the President, with exception of articles 3 and 4, May 7, 1930; ratification of the United States deposited with the Pan American Union, May 21, 1930; proclaimed by the President, June 6, 1930.
Treaty Series No. 815

Habana , February 20, 1928

The Governments of the Republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States, held in the city of Habana, Republic of Cuba, in the year 1928:

Have decided to conclude a convention for the purpose of determining the status of aliens within their respective territories and to that end have appointed the following plenipotentiaries:

[Here follows list of names of plenipotentiaries.]

Who, after depositing their full powers, which were found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following provisions:

Article 1

States have the right to establish by means of laws the conditions under which foreigners may enter and reside in their territory.

Article 2

Foreigners are subject as are nationals to local jurisdiction and laws, due consideration being given to the limitations expressed in conventions and treaties.

Article 3 Articles 3 and 4 excepted from ratification by the United States of America.

Foreigners may not be obliged to perform military service; but those foreigners who are domiciled, unless they prefer to leave the country, may be compelled, under the same conditions as nationals, to perform police, fire-protection, or militia duty for the protection of the place of their domicile against natural catastrophes or dangers not resulting from war.

Article 4 Articles 3 and 4 excepted from ratification by the United States of America.

Foreigners are obliged to make ordinary or extraordinary contributions, as well as forced loans, always provided that such measures apply to the population generally.

Article 5

States should extend to foreigners, domiciled or in transit through their territory, all individual guaranties extended to their own nationals, and the enjoyment of essential civil rights without detriment, as regards foreigners, to legal provisions governing the scope of and usages for the exercise of said rights and guaranties.

Article 6

For reasons of public order or safety, states may expel foreigners domiciled, resident, or merely in transit through their territory.

States are required to receive their nationals expelled from foreign soil who seek to enter their territory.

Article 7

Foreigners must not mix in political activities, which are the exclusive province of citizens of the country in which they happen to be; in cases of such interference, they shall be liable to the penalties established by local law.

Article 8

The present convention does not affect obligations previously undertaken by the contracting parties through international agreements.

Article 9

After being signed, the present convention shall be submitted to the ratification of the signatory states. The Government of Cuba is charged with transmitting authentic certified copies to the governments for the aforementioned purpose of ratification. The instrument of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Pan American Union in Washington, the Union to notify the signatory governments of said deposit. Such notification shall be considered as an exchange of ratifications. This convention shall remain open to the adherence of nonsignatory states.

In witness whereof, the aforenamed plenipotentiaries sign the present convention in Spanish, English, French, and Portuguese, in the city of Habana, the 20th day of February, 1928.

Perú: Jesús M. Salazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay: Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda.

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro.

Mexico: Julio García, Fernando González Roa, Salvador Urrina, Aquiles Elorduy.

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Héctor David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guatemala: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia.

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadro Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutiérrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vázquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jiménez.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi. .

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Díaz León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Peynado, Tulio M. Cestero, Jacinto R. de Castro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

reservation of the delegation of the united states of america

The delegation of the United States of America signs the present convention making express reservation to Article 3 of the same, which refers to military service of foreigners in case of war.

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernandez Cartaya, Arístides de Agüero Bethencourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.


---
## [d366] Convention Regarding Consular Agents, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text, only, printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, Jan. 22, 1932; ratified by the President, Feb. 1, 1932; ratification of the United States deposited with the Pan American Union, Feb. 8, 1932; proclaimed by the President, Feb. 11, 1932.
Treaty Series No. 843

Habana , February 20, 1928

The governments of the Republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States, held in the city of Habana, Republic of Cuba, in the year nineteen hundred and twenty-eight, desirous of defining the duties, rights, prerogatives and immunities of consular agents, in accordance with the usages and agreements on the matter;

Have decided to conclude a convention to that end and have appointed the following plenipotentiaries:

[Here follows list of names of plenipotentiaries.]

Who, after having deposited their full powers, found to be in good and due form, have agreed to the following provisions:

Section I — Appointments and functions

Article 1

States may appoint in the territory of others, with the express or tacit consent of the latter, consuls who shall there represent and defend their commercial and industrial interests and render to their nationals such assistance and protection as they may need.

Article 2

The form and requirements for appointment, the classes and the rank of the consuls, shall be regulated by the domestic laws of the respective state.

Article 3

Unless consented to by the state where he is to serve, one of its nationals may not act as consul. The granting of an exequatur implies such consent.

Article 4

The consul having been appointed, the state shall forward through diplomatic channels to the other state the respective commission which shall contain the name, category and authority of the appointee.

As to a vice consul or commercial agent appointed by the respective consul, where there is authorization by law, the commission shall be issued and communicated to the latter.

Article 5

States may refuse to accept consuls appointed in their territory or subject the exercise of consular functions to certain special obligations.

Article 6

The consul can be recognized as such only after having presented his commission and obtained the exequatur of the state in whose territory he is to serve. Provisional recognition can be granted upon the request of the legation of the consul pending the delivery in due form of the exequatur.

Officials appointed under the terms of Article 4 are likewise subject to this formality and in such case it rests with the respective consul to request the exequatur.

Article 7

The exequatur having been obtained, it shall be presented to the authorities of the consular district, who shall protect the consul in the exercise of his functions and guarantee to him the immunities to which he is entitled.

Article 8

The territorial government may at any time withdraw the consul’s exequatur, but, except in urgent cases, it shall not have recourse to this measure without previously attempting to obtain from the consul’s government his recall.

Article 9

In case of the death, disability or absence of consular agents any of the assistant employees whose official position has been previously made known to the ministry of foreign affairs or the department of state, may temporarily assume the consular functions; while thus engaged he shall enjoy all the rights and prerogatives corresponding to the permanent official.

Article 10

Consuls shall exercise the functions that the law of their state confers upon them, without prejudice to the legislation of the country where they are serving.

Article 11

In the exercise of their functions, consuls shall deal directly with the authorities of their district. Should their representations not be heeded, they may then pursue them before the government of the state through the intermediary of their diplomatic representative, but should not communicate directly with the government except in the absence or non-existence of a diplomatic representative.

Article 12

In case of the absence of a diplomatic representative of the consul’s state, the consul may undertake such diplomatic actions as the government of the state in which he functions may permit in such cases.

Article 13

A person duly accredited for the purpose may combine diplomatic representation and the consular function provided the state before which he is accredited consents to it.

Section II — Prerogatives of consuls

Article 14

In the absence of a special agreement between two nations, the consular agents who are nationals of the state appointing them, shall neither be arrested nor prosecuted except in the cases when they are accused of committing an act classed as a crime by local legislation.

Article 15

In criminal cases, the prosecution or the defense may request attendance of consular agents at the trial, as witnesses. This request must be made with all possible consideration to consular dignity and to the duties of the consular office and shall be complied with by the consular official.

Consular agents shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts in civil cases, although with the limitation that when the consul is a national of his state and is not engaged in any private business with purposes of gain, his testimony shall be taken either verbally or in writing, at his residence or office, with all the consideration to which he is entitled.

The consul may, nevertheless, of his own free will appear as a witness when such appearance does not seriously hinder the discharge of his official duties.

Article 16

Consuls are not subject to local jurisdiction for acts done in their official character and within the scope of their authority. In case a private individual deems himself injured by the consul’s action, he must submit his complaint to the government, which, if it considers the claim to be relevant, shall make it valid through diplomatic channels.

Article 17

In respect to unofficial acts, consuls are subject, in civil as well as in criminal matters, to the jurisdiction of the state where they exercise their functions.

Article 18

The official residence of the consuls and places used for the consulate’s offices and archives are inviolable and in no case may the local authorities enter them without the permission of the consular agents; neither shall they examine nor seize, under any pretext whatsoever, documents or other objects found in a consular office. No consular officer shall be required to present his official files before the courts or to make declaration with respect to their contents.

When consular agents are engaged in business within the territory of the state where they are exercising their duties, the files and documents of the consulate shall be kept in a place entirely separate from the one where private or business papers are kept.

Article 19

Consuls are obliged to deliver, upon the simple request of the local authorities, persons accused or condemned for crimes who may have sought refuge in the consulate.

Article 20

Consular agents, as well as the employees of the consulate who are nationals of the state appointing them, not engaged in business with purposes of gain, in the state where they perform their functions, shall be exempt from all national, state, provincial, or municipal taxes levied upon their person or property, except such taxes as may apply to the possession or ownership of real estate located in the state where discharging their duties or to the proceeds of the same. Consular agents and employees who are nationals of the state they represent, are exempt from taxes on the salaries, honorariums, or wages which they receive in return for their consular services.

Article 21

The employee who substitutes for the consular agent in his absence, or for another cause, shall enjoy during his temporary term of office the same immunities and prerogatives as the latter.

Article 22

Consuls engaged in business or exercising other functions apart from those pertaining to their consular duties are subject to local jurisdiction in all their activities not pertaining to the consular service.

Section III — Suspension and termination of consular functions

Article 23

Consular agents suspend their functions because of illness or leave of absence, and terminate their office: a ) By death; b ) By retirement, resignation, or dismissal; and c ) By the cancellation of the exequatur.

Article 24

The present convention does not affect obligations previously undertaken by the contracting parties through international agreements.

Article 25

After being signed, the present convention shall be submitted to the ratification of the signatory states. The Government of Cuba is charged with transmitting authentic certified copies to the governments for the aforementioned purpose of ratification. The instrument of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Pan American Union in Washington, the Union to notify the signatory governments of said deposit. Such notification shall be considered as an exchange of ratifications. This convention shall remain open to the adherence of non-signatory states.

In witness whereof, the aforenamed plenipotentiaries sign the present convention in Spanish, English, French, and Portuguese, in the city of Habana, the 20th day of February, 1928.

Perú: Jesús M. Salazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay: Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda .

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro.

Mexico: Julio Garcia, Fernando Gonzalez Roa, Salvador Urbina, Aqutles Elorduy.

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Hector David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guaterrtcda: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia.

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadra Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

reservation of the delegation of venezuela

On behalf of the Government that I represent, I make a reservation with respect to the coincidence of diplomatic and consular functions in the same person, because it is totally opposed to our tradition, maintained since it was established until the present time, in a way that admits of no change.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutiérrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vazquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jiménez.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi .

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Díaz León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Petnado, Tulio M. Cestero, Jacinto R. deCastro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernández Cartaya, Arístides de Agüero Bethenoourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.


---
## [d367] Convention Regarding Maritime Neutrality, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text, only, printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, with exception of section 3 of article 12, Jan. 28, 1932 (legislative day of Jan. 26, 1932); ratified by the President, with exception of section 3 of article 12, Feb. 6, 1932; ratification of the United States deposited with the Fan American Union, Mar. 22, 1932; proclaimed by the President, May 26, 1932.
Treaty Series No. 845

Habana , February 20, 1928

The Governments of the Republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States, held in the city of Habana, Republic of Cuba, in the year 1928;

Desiring that, in case war breaks out between two or more states the other states may, in the service of peace, offer their good offices or mediation to bring the conflict to an end, without such an action being considered as an unfriendly act;

Convinced that, in case this aim cannot be attained, neutral states have equal interest in having their rights respected by the belligerents;

Considering that neutrality is the juridical situation of states which do not take part in the hostilities, and that it creates rights and imposes obligations of impartiality, which should be regulated;

Recognizing that international solidarity requires that the liberty of commerce should be always respected, avoiding as far as possible unnecessary burdens for the neutrals;

It being convenient, that as long as this object is not reached, to reduce those burdens as much as possible; and

In the hope that it will be possible to regulate the matter so that all interests concerned may have every desired guaranty;

Have resolved to formulate a convention to that effect and have appointed the following plenipotentiaries:

[Here follows list of names of plenipotentiaries.]

Who, after having presented their credentials, which were found in good and correct form, have agreed upon the following provisions:

Section I .— Freedom of commerce in time of war

Article 1

The following rules shall govern commerce in time of war:

1. Warships of the belligerents have the right to stop and visit on the high seas and in territorial waters that are not neutral any merchant ship with the object of ascertaining its character and nationality and of verifying whether it conveys cargo prohibited by international law or has committed any violation of blockade. If the merchant ship does not heed the signal to stop, it may be pursued by the warship and stopped by force; outside of such a case the ship cannot be attacked unless, after being hailed, it fails to observe the instructions given it.

The ship shall not be rendered incapable of navigation before the crew and passengers have been placed in safety.

2. Belligerent submarines are subject to the foregoing rules. If the submarine cannot capture the ship while observing these rules, it shall not have the right to continue to attack or to destroy the ship.

Article 2

Both the detention of the vessel and its crew for violation of neutrality shall be made in accordance with the procedure which best suits the state effecting it and at the expense of the transgressing ship. Said state, except in the case of grave fault on its part, is not responsible for damages which the vessel may suffer.

Section II .— Duties and rights of belligerents

Article 3

Belligerent states are obligated to refrain from performing acts of war in neutral waters or other acts which may constitute on the part of the state that tolerates them, a violation of neutrality.

Article 4

Under the terms of the preceding article, a belligerent state is forbidden: a ) To make use of neutral waters as a base of naval operations against the enemy, or to renew or augment military supplies or the armament of its ships, or to complete the equipment of the latter; b ) To install in neutral waters radio-telegraph stations or any other apparatus which may serve as a means of communication with its military forces, or to make use of installations of this kind it may have established before the war and which may not have been opened to the public.

Article 5

Belligerent warships are forbidden to remain in the ports or waters of a neutral state more than twenty-four hours. This provision will be communicated to the ship as soon as it arrives in port or in the territorial waters, and if already there at the time of the declaration of war, as soon as the neutral state becomes aware of this declaration.

Vessels used exclusively for scientific, religious, or philanthropic purposes are exempted from the foregoing provisions.

A ship may extend its stay in port more than twenty-four hours in case of damage or bad conditions at sea, but must depart as soon as the cause of the delay has ceased.

When, according to the domestic law of the neutral state, the ship may not receive fuel until twenty-four hours after its arrival in port, the period of its stay may be extended an equal length of time.

Article 6

The ship which does not conform to the foregoing rules may be interned by order of the neutral government.

A ship shall be considered as interned from the moment it receives notice to that effect from the local neutral authority, even though a petition for reconsideration of the order has been interposed by the transgressing vessel, which shall remain under custody from the moment it receives the order.

Article 7

In the absence of a special provision of the local legislation, the maximum number of ships of war of a belligerent which may be in a neutral port at the same time shall be three.

Article 8

A ship of war may not depart from a neutral port within less than twenty-four hours after the departure of an enemy warship. The one entering first shall depart first, unless it is in such condition as to warrant extending its stay. In any case the ship which arrived later has the right to notify the other through the competent local authority that within twenty-four hours it will leave the port, the one first entering, however, having the right to depart within that time. If it leaves, the notifying ship must observe the interval which is above stipulated.

Article 9

Damaged belligerent ships shall not be permitted to make repairs in neutral ports beyond those that are essential to the continuance of the voyage and which in no degree constitute an increase in its military strength.

Damages which are found to have been produced by the enemy’s fire shall in no case be repaired.

The neutral state shall ascertain the nature of the repairs to be made and will see that they are made as rapidly as possible.

Article 10

Belligerent warships may supply themselves with fuel and stores in neutral ports, under the conditions especially established by the local authority and in case there are no special provisions to that effect, they may supply themselves in the manner prescribed for provisioning in time of peace.

Article 11

Warships which obtain fuel in a neutral port cannot renew their supply in the same state until a period of three months has elapsed.

Article 12

Where the sojourn, supplying, and provisioning of belligerent ships, in the ports and jurisdictional waters of neutrals are concerned, the provisions relative to ships of war shall apply equally: 1. To ordinary auxiliary ships; 2. To merchant ships transformed into warships, in accordance with Convention VII of The Hague of 1907. The neutral vessel shall be seized and in general subjected to the same treatment as enemy merchantmen: a ) When taking a direct part in the hostilities; b ) When at the orders or under the direction of an agent placed on board by an enemy government; c ) When entirely freight-loaded by an enemy government; d ) When actually and exclusively destined for transporting enemy troops or for the transmission of information on behalf of the enemy. In the cases dealt with in this article, merchandise belonging to the owner of the vessel or ship shall also be liable to seizure. 3. To armed merchantmen. Section 3 was excepted from ratification by the United States of America.

Article 13

Auxiliary ships of belligerents, converted anew into merchantmen, shall be admitted as such in neutral ports subject to the following conditions: 1. That the transformed vessel has not violated the neutrality of the country where it arrives; 2. That the transformation has been made in the ports of jurisdictional waters of the country to which the vessel belongs, or in the ports of its allies; 3. That the transformation be genuine, namely, that the vessel show neither in its crew nor in its equipment that it can serve the armed fleet of its country as an auxiliary, as it did before; 4. That the government of the country to which the ship belongs communicate to the states the names of auxiliary craft which have lost such character in order to recover that of merchantmen; and 5. That the same government obligate itself that said ships shall not again be used as auxiliaries to the war fleet.

Article 14

The airships of belligerents shall not fly above the territory or the territorial waters of neutrals if it is not in conformity with the regulations of the latter.

Section III .— Rights and duties of neutrals

Article 15

Of the acts of assistance coming from the neutral states, and the acts of commerce on the part of individuals, only the first are contrary to neutrality.

Article 16

The neutral state is forbidden: a ) To deliver to the belligerent, directly or indirectly, or for any reason whatever, ships of war, munitions or any other war material; b ) To grant it loans, or to open credits for it during the duration of war.

Credits that a neutral state may give to facilitate the sale or exportation of its food products and raw materials are not included in this prohibition.

Article 17

Prizes cannot be taken to a neutral port except in case of unseaworthiness, stress of weather, or want of fuel or provisions. When the cause has disappeared, the prizes must leave immediately; if none of the indicated conditions exist, the state shall suggest to them that they depart, and if not obeyed shall have recourse to the means at its disposal to disarm them with their officers and crew, or to intern the prize crew placed on board by the captor.

Article 18

Outside of the cases provided for in Article 17, the neutral state must release the prizes which may have been brought into its territorial waters.

Article 19

When a ship transporting merchandise is to be interned in a neutral state, cargo intended for said country shall be unloaded and that destined for others shall be transhipped.

Article 20

The merchantman supplied with fuel or other stores in a neutral state which repeatedly delivers the whole or part of its supplies to a belligerent vessel, shall not again receive stores and fuel in the same state.

Article 21

Should it be found that a merchantman flying a belligerent flag, by its preparations or other circumstances, can supply to warships of a state the stores which they need, the local authority may refuse it supplies or demand of the agent of the company a guaranty that the said ship will not aid or assist any belligerent vessel.

Article 22

Neutral states are not obligated to prevent the export or transit at the expense of any one of the belligerents of arms, munitions and in general of anything which may be useful to their military forces.

Transit shall be permitted when, in the event of a war between two American nations, one of the belligerents is a mediterranean country, having no other means of supplying itself, provided the vital interests of the country through which transit is requested do not suffer by the granting thereof.

Article 23

Neutral states shall not oppose the voluntary departure of nationals of belligerent states even though they leave simultaneously in great numbers; but they may oppose the voluntary departure of their own nationals going to enlist in the armed forces.

Article 24

The use by the belligerents of the means of communication of neutral states or which cross or touch their territory is subject to the measures dictated by the local authority.

Article 25

If as the result of naval operations beyond the territorial waters of neutral states there should be dead or wounded on board belligerent vessels, said states may send hospital ships under the vigilance of the neutral government to the scene of the disaster. These ships shall enjoy complete immunity during the discharge of their mission.

Article 26

Neutral states are bound to exert all the vigilance within their power in order to prevent in their ports or territorial waters any violation of the foregoing provisions.

Section IV .— Fulfilment and observance of the laws of neutrality

Article 27

A belligerent shall indemnify the damage caused by its violation of the foregoing provisions. It shall likewise be responsible for the acts of persons who may belong to its armed forces.

Article 28

The present convention does not affect obligations previously undertaken by the contracting parties through international agreements.

Article 29

After being signed, the present convention shall be submitted to the ratification of the signatory states. The Government of Cuba is charged with transmitting authentic certified copies to the governments for the aforementioned purpose of ratification. The instrument of ratification, shall be deposited in the archives of the Pan American Union in Washington, the Union to notify the signatory governments of said deposit. Such notifications shall be considered as an exchange of ratifications. This convention shall remain open to the adherence of non-signatory states.

In witness whereof, the aforenamed plenipotentiaries sign the present convention in Spanish, English, French, and Portuguese, in the city of Habana, the 20th day of February 1928.

Perú: Jesús M. Salazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay: Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda .

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro .

Mexico: Julio García, Fernando González Roa, Salvador Urbina, Aquiles Elorduy .

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Héctor David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guatemala: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia .

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadra Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutiérrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vázquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jimenez.

reservation of the delegation of chile

The delegation of Chile signs the present convention with a reservation concerning Article 22, paragraph 2.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi.

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Díaz León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Peynado, Tuuo M. Cestero, Jacinto R. de Castro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

reservation of the delegation of the united states of america

The delegation of the United States of America signs the present convention with a reservation regarding Article 12, section 3. The Argentine delegation proposed in committee amendments which it had suggested in subcommittee. One of these, to the effect that armed merchantmen should be assimilated to auxiliary vessels in the service of belligerents, was carried and forms the last sentence of article 12 of the convention. To this, the United States interposed a reservation, as did likewise Cuba and Uruguay. The convention was adopted in the plenary session of February 18, Chile and the United States expressly maintaining at the time of signing, their respective reservations ( Report of the Delegates of the United States of America to the Sixth International Conference of American States , p. 19).

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

reservation of the delegation of cuba

The delegation of the Republic of Cuba signs with a reservation in reference to Article 12, section 3.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernández Cartaya, Arístides de Agüero Bethencourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.


---
## [d368] Convention Regarding the Duties and Rights of States in the Event of Civil Strife, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 In English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French; English text, only, printed. Ratification advised by the Senate, subject to an understanding in regard to Article 3, Apr. 15, 1930 (legislative day of Apr. 14, 1930); ratified by the President, subject to an understanding in regard to Article 3, May 7, 1930; ratification of the United States deposited with the Pan American Union, May 21, 1930; proclaimed by the President, June 6, 1930.
Treaty Series No. 814

Habana , February 20, 1928

The Governments of the Republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States, held in the city of Habana, Republic of Cuba, in the year 1928, desirous of reaching an agreement as to the duties and rights of states in the event of civil strife, have appointed the following plenipotentiaries:

[Here follows list of names of plenipotentiaries.]

Who, after exchanging their respective full powers, which were found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following:

Article 1

The contracting states bind themselves to observe the following rules with regard to civil strife in another one of them: 1. To use all means at their disposal to prevent the inhabitants of their territory, nationals or aliens, from participating in, gathering elements, crossing the boundary or sailing from their territory for the purpose of starting or promoting civil strife. 2. To disarm and intern every rebel force crossing their boundaries, the expenses of internment to be borne by the state where public order may have been disturbed. The arms found in the hands of the rebels may be seized and withdrawn by the government of the country granting asylum, to be returned, once the struggle has ended, to the state in civil strife. 3. To forbid the traffic in arms and war material, except when intended for the government, while the belligerency of the rebels has not been recognized, in which latter case the rules of neutrality shall be applied. 4. To prevent that within their jurisdiction there be equipped, armed or adapted for warlike purposes any vessel intended to operate in favor of the rebellion.

Article 2

The declaration of piracy against vessels which have risen in arms, emanating from a government, is not binding upon the other states.

The state that may be injured by depredations originating from insurgent vessels is entitled to adopt the following punitive measures against them: Should the authors of the damages be warships, it may capture and return them to the government of the state to which they belong, for their trial; should the damage originate with merchantmen, the injured state may capture and subject them to the appropriate penal laws.

The insurgent vessel, whether a warship or a merchantman, which flies the flag of a foreign country to shield its actions, may also be captured and tried by the state of said flag.

Article 3 Ratified on the part of the United States of America subject to the understanding that the provisions of article 3 thereof shall not apply where a state of belligerency has been recognized.

The insurgent vessel, whether a warship or a merchantman, equipped by the rebels, which arrives at a foreign country or seeks refuge therein, shall be delivered by the government of the latter to the constituted government of the state in civil strife, and the members of the crew shall be considered as political refugees.

Article 4

The present convention does not affect obligations previously undertaken by the contracting parties through international agreements.

Article 5

After being signed, the present convention shall be submitted to the ratification of the signatory states. The Government of Cuba is charged with transmitting authentic certified copies to the governments for the aforementioned purpose of ratification. The instrument of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Pan American Union in Washington, the Union to notify the signatory governments of said deposit. Such notification shall be considered as an exchange of ratifications. This convention shall remain open to the adherence of non-signatory states.

In witness whereof the aforenamed plenipotentiaries sign the present convention in Spanish, English, French, and Portuguese, in the city of Habana, the 20th day of February, 1928.

Perú: Jesús M. Salazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay: Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda .

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro.

Mexico: Julio García, Fernando González Roa, Salvador Urbina, Aquiles Elorduy.

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Héctor David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guatemala: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia.

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadra Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutierrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vázquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jiménez.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi.

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Díaz León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Peynado, Tulio M. Cestero, Jacinto R. de Castro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernandez Cartaya, Arístides de Agüero Bethencourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.


---
## [d369] Convention Regarding the Pan American Union, Signed at Habana, February 20, 1928 Contained in the final act signed Feb. 20, 1928. Ratification advised by the Senate, Feb. 28, 1931 (legislative day of Feb. 17, 1931); ratified by the President, Mar. 6, 1931; ratification of the United States deposited with the Pan American Union, Mar. 18, 1931. Convention not yet in force, since it requires ratification by all the Governments of the Pan American Union before entry into force.
Unperfected Treaty No. J–10

Habana , February 20, 1928

Their Excellencies the Presidents of the Republics of Peru, Uruguay, Panama, Ecuador, Mexico, Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Venezuela, Colombia, Honduras, Costa Rica, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, Haiti, Dominican Republic, the United States of America and Cuba, through their respective plenipotentiary delegates, have agreed upon the following convention, which shall be signed in the manner provided for in the final article:

The American Republics, whose moral union rests on the juridical equality of the republics of the continent and on the mutual respect of the rights inherent in their complete independence, desirous of promoting efficaciously the increasing conciliation of their economic interests and coordination of their social and intellectual activities, and recognizing that relations between peoples are regulated by law as well as by their legitimate individual and collective interests;

Agree to continue their joint action of cooperation and solidarity by means of periodic meetings of the International Conferences of American States, as well as by means of organs established by virtue of international agreements, and through the Pan American Union which has its seat in Washington and whose organization and functions shall be regulated by the present convention, in the following terms:

Article 1— Organs of the Union of the American States

The Union of the American States strives for the fulfilment of its object through the following organs: a ) The International Conference of American States; b ) The Pan American Union under the direction of a Governing Board with its seat in the city of Washington; c ) Every organ that may be established by virtue of conventions between the American states.

Each state enjoys, as of right, representation at the conferences and on the Governing Board.

Article 2— The International Conferences of American States

The conferences shall meet at periodic intervals. The Governing Board of the Pan American Union shall determine the date on which they shall meet, provided that in no case shall a longer period than five years elapse between conferences, except in case of force majeure.

Article 3 —Governing Board

The government of the Pan American Union shall be vested in a Governing Board composed of the representatives that the American governments may appoint. The appointment may devolve upon the diplomatic representatives of the respective countries in Washington.

Besides his own country, a member of the Governing Board may serve as special representative of one or more countries, in which case such representative shall have as many votes as countries represented.

The Board shall elect its Chairman and Vice Chairman annually.

Article 4— Executive Officers

The Governing Board shall appoint the following officers:

A Director General, who shall have charge of the administration of the Pan American Union, with power to promote its most ample development in accordance with the terms of this convention, the regulations and the resolutions of the Board, to which body he shall be responsible.

The Director General shall attend, in an advisory capacity, the meetings of the Governing Board, of the committees appointed by the Board, and of the International Conferences of American States for the purpose of giving such information as may be required. The necessary expenses shall be paid out of the funds of the Pan American Union.

An Assistant Director, who shall act as secretary of the Governing Board.

The Director General shall prepare the internal regulations by which the various divisions of the Pan American Union shall be governed, in accordance with the provisions of the present convention, and shall submit them to the Governing Board for approval.

The Director General shall present to the Governing Board annually, at the regular session of the Board in November, a detailed budget for the ensuing fiscal year.

The Director General shall submit to the consideration of each conference of the American Republics a detailed report on the work carried out by the Pan American Union during the period preceding the meeting of the conference.

The Director General shall appoint, with the approval of the Governing Board, the personnel necessary to the work of the Pan American Union, endeavoring as far as possible to distribute the positions among nationals of the countries members of the Union.

Article 5— Maintenance of the Pan American Union

The Governing Board of the Pan American Union shall determine the quota which is to be paid by each of the governments members of the Union for the maintenance of the Pan American Union. But increases in the budget of the Pan American Union exceeding by more than twenty-five per cent the budget of the preceding year shall be approved by the unanimous vote of the Governing Board, the representatives being given time to consult their respective governments. The quota shall be determined on the basis of the latest official statistics of population in possession of the Pan American Union on the first day of July of each year. The budget shall be communicated to the governments members of the Union before the first day of the ensuing calendar year, with an indication of the quota which each country shall pay, such payments to be made before the first of July of that year.

The Governing Board shall elect from among its members a committee charged with examining, on the dates determined by the Board, the accounts of the expenditures of the Union, in conformity with the provisions established by the regulations and the opinion of three experts to be appointed for the purpose.

Article 6— Functions of the Pan American Union

Both the Governing Board and the Pan American Union shall discharge the duties assigned by this convention subject to the condition that they shall not exercise functions of a political character.

The functions of the Pan American Union are: 1. To compile and distribute information and reports concerning the commercial, industrial, agricultural, social, and educational development as well as the general progress of the American Republics. 2. To compile and classify information referring to the conventions and treaties concluded among the American Republics and between these and other states, as well as to the legislation of the former. 3. To assist in the development of commercial, industrial, agricultural, social, and cultural relations, the study of the problems of labor and the furtherance of a more intimate mutual acquaintance between the American Republics. 4. To act as a Permanent Commission of the International Conferences of American States; to keep their records and archives; to assist in obtaining ratification of the treaties and conventions; to carry out and facilitate the execution of the resolutions adopted by the International Conferences of American States, within the limits of its powers; and to prepare in agreement with the governments the program of the International Conferences of American States, and submit to the conferences a project of regulations. 5. To perform such other functions entrusted to it by the Conference or by the Governing Board, by virtue of the powers conferred upon it by this convention. Whenever a state believes that its vital interests are involved in a question, or that an obligation may thereby be imposed upon it, such state may require that the resolution of the Board be adopted by unanimous vote. 6. The Governing Board may promote the meeting of international conferences of experts to study problems of a technical character of common interest to the countries members of the Union, and to this end may request the governments to appoint experts to represent them at these conferences, which shall meet at the place and time determined by the Board.

To carry out the purposes for which the institution is organized the Governing Board shall provide for the establishment of such administrative divisions or sections within the Pan American Union as it may deem necessary.

Article 7— Deposit and Exchange of Ratifications

The instruments of ratification of the treaties, conventions, protocols, and other diplomatic documents signed at the International Conferences of American States shall be deposited at the Pan American Union by the respective representative on the Governing Board, acting in the name of his government, without need of special credentials for the deposit of the ratification. A record of the deposit of the ratification shall be made in a document signed by the representative on the Board of the ratifying country, by the Director General of the Pan American Union, and by the Secretary of the Governing Board.

The Pan American Union shall communicate to all the states members of the Union, through their representatives on the Board, the deposit of the ratification.

Article 8— Communication of Official Documents to the Pan American Union

The governments of the countries members of the Union shall transmit to the Pan American Union two copies of the official documents and publications which relate to the purposes of the Union, as far as the internal legislation of the respective countries may permit.

Article 9— Cooperation Between Official Pan American Organizations

For the purpose of coordinating the results of the work of other official Pan American organizations, and of establishing relations of close cooperation between them, the program of work and the development of their activities shall, as far as possible, be the subject of agreement between their directive bodies and the Governing Board of the Pan American Union.

The governments members of the Union which may not have an efficient organ for the study and investigation of Pan American affairs, shall establish a committee composed of persons of experience in such matters, or an office attached to the ministry of foreign affairs entrusted with Pan American affairs.

These committees or offices shall have the following duties: a ) To cooperate with their respective governments to obtain ratification of treaties and conventions, and to the carrying out of the agreements adopted by the International Conferences of American States; b ) To furnish the Pan American Union promptly with the information it may need in the preparation of its work; c ) To present to the Union through the proper channels such projects as they may consider useful to the purposes of the Union.

Article 10

The Governing Board of the Pan American Union shall prepare the regulations and fix the status of the members of the staff, determining their salaries and conditions of retirement.

Article 11

All correspondence and matter transmitted through the mails to the Pan American Union, which bears the frank used by the Union, and all correspondence or matter transmitted by the Pan American Union, shall be carried free of charge by the mails of the American Republics.

Article 12

The contracting states may withdraw from the Pan American Union at any time, but shall pay their respective quotas for the period of the current fiscal year.

Article 13

This convention can not be modified except in the same manner in which it was adopted.

Article 14

The present convention shall be ratified by the signatory states, and is open to the signature and ratification of the states represented at the Conference that may not have been able to sign.

The President of the Conference, through the Government of the Republic of Cuba, shall send to the governments represented at the Conference an authenticated copy of the present project of convention in order that, if the governments approve, it may receive their adhesion. For this purpose, the governments that adhere to the convention shall authorize their respective diplomatic or special representatives in the city of Habana to sign the convention. All the states having signed, the convention shall be submitted by each government for ratification.

The present convention shall become effective when all the states represented at the Conference receive notice that all the ratifications have been deposited with the Pan American Union, and that the adhesions and ratifications of the twenty-one American Republics have been received.

In witness whereof, the delegates sign and affix their seals to the present convention.

Perú: Jesús M. Salazar, Víctor M. Maúrtua, Luis Ernesto Denegri, E. Castro Oyanguren.

Uruguay: Varela, Pedro Erasmo Callorda .

Panamá: R. J. Alfaro, Eduardo Chiari.

Ecuador: Gonzalo Zaldumbide, Víctor Zevallos, C. E. Alfaro .

Mexico: Julio García, Fernando Gonzáles Roa, Salvator Urbina, Aquiles Elorduy.

Salvador: J. Gustavo Guerrero, Hector David Castro, Ed. Alvarez.

Guatemala: Carlos Salazar, B. Alvarado, Luis Beltranena, J. Azurdia.

Nicaragua: Carlos Cuadra Pazos, Máximo H. Zepeda, Joaquín Gómez.

Bolivia: José Antezana, A. Costa du R.

Venezuela: Santiago Key Ayala, Francisco G. Yanes, Rafael Angel Arraiz.

Colombia: Enrique Olaya Herrera, R. Gutierrez Lee, J. M. Yepes.

Honduras: F. Dávila, Mariano Vazquez.

Costa Rica: Ricardo Castro Beeche, J. Rafael Oreamuno, A. Tinoco Jimenez.

Chile: Alejandro Lira, Alejandro Alvarez, C. Silva Vildósola, Manuel Bianchi.

Brazil: Raúl Fernandes, Lindolfo Collor.

declaration of the delegation of argentina

The Argentine delegation declares, pursuant to express instructions of its Government, that it approves and will sign the project of convention; but that it now wishes to formulate the reservation that it regrets that the economic principles which it upheld in the committee have not been included in this convention.

Argentina: Laurentino Olascoaga, Felipe A. Espil, Carlos Alberto Alcorta .

Paraguay: Lisandro Días León, Juan Vicente Ramírez .

Haiti: Fernando Dennis.

Dominican Republic: Fraco. J. Peynado, Tulio M. Cestero, Jacinto R. de Castro, Elías Brache, R. Pérez Alfonseca.

United States of America: Charles Evans Hughes, Noble Brandon Judah, Henry P. Fletcher, Oscar W. Underwood, Morgan J. O’Brien, James Brown Scott, Ray Lyman Wilbur, Leo S. Rowe.

Cuba: Antonio S. de Bustamante, Orestes Ferrara, E. Hernández, Cartaya, Arístides de Agüero Bethencourt, M. Márquez Sterling, Néstor Carbonell.


---
## [d370] The Secretary of State to the Ambassador in Brazil ( Morgan ) The same, mutatis mutandis , on the same date, to the chiefs of missions in Chile (No. 834), Cuba (No. 125), Haiti (No. 818), Mexico (No. 252), Paraguay (No. 417), Uruguay (No. 129), and Venezuela (No. 1237).
710.1012 Washington/18

Washington , April 14, 1928 . No. 1364

Sir : On February 18, 1928, the republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States at Habana, Cuba, See pp. 527 ff. passed a resolution, a copy of which is enclosed, For text of resolution, see circular telegram, June 19, to the chiefs of diplomatic missions in Latin America, p. 637 . declaring in favor of obligatory arbitration for the pacific settlement of international differences of a juridical nature. They also resolved to meet in Washington within the period of one year in a conference of conciliation and arbitration to draw up a convention for the realization of this principle with the minimum exceptions which they consider indispensable to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of states, as well as domestic questions, and also including matters relating to the interest or referring to the action of a state not a party to the convention.

The United States Government will be pleased to invite the other Governments of the Pan American Union to send delegates to such a conference. It is suggested that the conference be called to meet in Washington on December 10, 1928. This date will give ample time for the various countries to formulate their plans and prepare for the conference. The resolution further provides that each of the countries shall be represented at the conference by plenipotentiary jurisconsults with instructions regarding the maximum and the minimum which the nations they represent would accept with regard to obligatory arbitral jurisdiction. I suggest that not more than two delegates be named by each country. You are instructed to inform the Government of Brazil of these suggestions and to inquire if they are acceptable to that Government.

On the subject of conciliation you are undoubtedly aware that a Treaty to Avoid or Prevent Conflicts Between the American States (commonly known as the Gondra Treaty) was signed at Santiago, Chile, on May 3, 1923, by sixteen republics parties to the Pan American Union; Foreign Relations , 1923, vol. i , p. 308 . viz., the United States, Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, Ecuador, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina. It was subsequently signed by Mexico. To date it has been ratified by the following states and the ratifications duly deposited at Santiago, Chile,—the United States, Mexico, Cuba, Chile, Haiti, Venezuela, Brazil and Paraguay. The information available to the Department indicates that the following nations have ratified the treaty but have not yet officially deposited their ratifications—Guatemala, Panama and Uruguay.

On March 29, 1928, at the invitation of the Acting Secretary of State, the diplomatic representatives of Uruguay, Panama and Colombia, as the three diplomatic agents longest accredited before this Government, met in the Department of State and organized the Permanent Commission to be established at Washington in accordance with Article III of this Treaty. See pp. 644 ff. The Minister of Uruguay was chosen as Chairman of this Commission.

The Gondra Treaty, similar to the Bryan Treaty which the United States has concluded with about eighteen countries, For Bryan treaties for the advancement of general peace, see Foreign Relations , 1914, index, p. 1130 ; 1915, index, p. 1328 ; 1916, index, p. 1007 . would seem to cover questions of conciliation; and, as you are probably aware, the last Pan American Conference adopted a resolution, a copy of which is enclosed, requesting all states parties to the Pan American Union to ratify this Treaty as quickly as possible.

I desire you confidentially and discreetly to obtain such information as may be possible with regard to the attitude of the Brazilian Government on the question of arbitration and conciliation. Brazil has ratified the Gondra Treaty and it would therefore seem as though that subject has been properly taken care of; but the Department desires to know the attitude of the Government of Brazil with regard to the arbitration of juridical questions.

I am [etc.]

Frank B. Kellogg


---
## [d376] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
710.1012 Washington/34

Santo Domingo , May 11, 1928 . [Received May 23.] No. 885

Sir : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the Department’s instruction No. 239 of April 14, 1928 See footnote 72, p. 623 . relative to the Conference of Conciliation and Arbitration to be held in Washington, and to enclose herewith a copy of the Legation’s note to the Foreign Office Not printed. informing it of the suggestions therein contained and inquiring if they are acceptable to the Dominican Government.

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Sanchez, has informally expressed the opinion that the suggestions as to the date of the conference and the size of the delegations will be acceptable to his Government. In conversation with him concerning the proposed conference, I endeavored discreetly to obtain information as to the attitude of the Dominican Government on the question of arbitration and conciliation. Without hesitation Mr. Sanchez informed me that in his opinion the Dominican Government should be unreservedly committed to arbitration and conciliation, first, because of the constitutional provision that the powers instituted by the Constitution cannot declare war without previously proposing arbitration and that to secure this principle clauses relative to the solution of all differences by means of arbitration must be inserted in all international treaties entered into by the Republic (Article 100 of the Constitution of 1927), and second, because the physical position of the Dominican Republic makes arbitration and conciliation essential. He added that he believed that the Dominican delegation to the forthcoming conference should have instructions enabling them to concede the maximum with regard to obligatory arbitral jurisdiction.

During the above-mentioned conversation I referred to the Gondra Treaty. Mr. Sanchez stated that he was unaware of any particular opposition to the treaty and said that it is probably among those which have been submitted to Congress but not acted on, or which through carelessness have never been submitted to the Congress. In discussing the provisions of this treaty Mr. Sanchez volunteered the observation, that its ratification might opportunely precede the conference at Washington, which gave me an opportunity to indicate the sincere hope of my Government that ratification might be effected before the conference.

Minister Sanchez assured me that he would submit the various suggestions raised to the President and promptly advise me of the Government’s attitude thereon.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d378] The Chargé in Haiti ( Gross ) to the Secretary of State
710.1012 Washington/38

Port au Prince , May 16, 1928 . [Received June 5.] No. 1013

Sir : I have the honor to refer to the Department’s Despatch No. 818, dated April 4 [ 14 ], 1928, See footnote 66, p. 621 . informing the Legation of the favorable action taken by the Republics represented at the Sixth International Conference of American States on the question of obligatory arbitration for the pacific settlement of international differences, and instructing the Legation to inform the Government of Haiti of the suggestion of the United States Government to invite the other Governments of the Pan-American Union to send delegates to a conference of conciliation and arbitration, suggested to be held in Washington on December 10, 1928, to draft a convention for the realization of this principle.

In reply I have the honor to inform the Department that President Borno has informed me verbally that he would be pleased to appoint delegates should such a conference take place for the purposes suggested; that the delegates could be instructed beforehand; but stated that he could not be certain this far ahead that Haitian Jurisconsults would be available as delegates.

In compliance with the request contained in the last paragraph of the Department’s instruction, I have the honor to inform the Department that President Borno has expressed himself to me verbally as in favor not only of the principle of arbitration of juridical questions, but also in favor of the arbitration of questions involving national honor.

I have [etc.]

C. Gross


---
## [d384] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
710.1012 Washington/55

Santo Domingo , June 4, 1928 . [Received June 13.] No. 915

Sir : Having further reference to the Department’s instruction No. 239, April 14, 1928, See footnote 72, p. 623 . in regard to the conference which is to be held at Washington this year on conciliation and arbitration, and supplementing the Legation’s despatch No. 885, May 11, 1928, I have the honor to report that in a recent conference with me the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that from the records of the Foreign Office it appears that the Gondra Treaty was never submitted to the Dominican Congress for approval. The Minister said confidentially that if the present boundary negotiations with Haiti reach a successful conclusion See pp. 706 ff. the treaty will be submitted to the Congress at its next session which convenes on August 16.

Mr. Sanchez again stated that he was fully in sympathy with the purposes of the proposed Washington conference and that he will press for the ratification of the Gondra Treaty so soon as the boundary question is adjusted.

The Department will recall in this connection the refusal of the Dominican Government last year to enter into a treaty of friendship and amity with Haiti, as proposed by President Borno, outlawing war between the two countries. The reasons underlying the attitude of the Dominican Government in the matter were reported in the Legation’s confidential despatch No. 648, October 8, 1927. Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , p. 350 .

The Legation has not yet received a final reply to its Note of May 10, 1928 to the Foreign Office, in regard to the coming conference at Washington. Mr. Sanchez has assured me verbally, however, that the suggestions of the Department in regard to the conference are entirely agreeable to the Dominican Government and that the Foreign Office is merely awaiting the written authority of President Vasquez before apprising me formally to that effect.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d388] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
710.1012 Washington/76

Santo Domingo , June 14, 1928 . [Received June 26.] No. 920

Sir : Adverting to the Department’s instruction No. 239 of April 14, 1928, See footnote 72, p. 623 . and confirming the Legation’s telegram No. 37 of even date, twelve noon, Not printed. I have the honor to report that the Dominican Government has signified its complete agreement with the suggestions of the Department, in the instruction under reference, concerning the Conference of Conciliation and Arbitration to be held in Washington. There is attached hereto a translation of the note from the Foreign Office informing the Legation of the Government’s attitude. Not printed.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young



# SUBCHAPTER [ch23subch3] Dominican Republic and Haiti Continued from Foreign Relations , 1927, vol. i , pp. 345 – 356 .

---
## [d493] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/328: Telegram

[Paraphrase]

Santo Domingo , January 14, 1928—noon . [Received 7:30 p.m.]

8. Informal conversations looking to the settlement of the boundary question have been instituted here. It now seems likely that an exchange of notes will be effected soon agreeing to settle the question on the basis of the status quo line, with minor adjustments involving the mutual cession of territory to be worked out after the exchange of notes. The subsequent steps will involve agreement as to territory to be ceded, the amendment of article 3 of the Constitution of the Dominican Republic, and the formal ratification of the final agreement. Both sides are optimistic.

Young


---
## [d494] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/335

Santo Domingo , February 20, 1928 . [Received February 28.] No. 790

Sir : Adverting to the Legation’s telegram No. 15 of February 15, 1928, Not printed; it informed the Department that an exchange of notes had been effected. I have the honor to forward herewith translations of the notes exchanged by Minister of Foreign Affairs Sanchez and the Haitian Minister expressing the desire of both Governments to undertake a settlement of the boundary question. The notes are dated January 20 and 21, respectively, but they were in fact exchanged on February 13th.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young

[Enclosure 1—Translation] The Dommican Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Sanchez ) to the Haitian Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Dejean ) [ Santo Domingo ,] January 20, 1928 . Mr. Minister : The Government of the Dominican Republic, convinced of the necessity, under which the Haitian people and the Dominican people are, of harmonizing their conflicting interests and of comprehending how a common destiny holds them linked in the same future of progress and of improvement, has, obedient to the feeling of friendship and of sincere sympathy which presides over the relations of our two Governments, deemed it opportune to invite Your Excellency’s Government to recognize, as my Government recognizes, the expedience of reaching a definitive accord, frank and open, which shall put a happy end to the difficulties which, in connection with the pending frontier question, have frequently been present in the relations of these peoples with evident diminution of their tranquility and welfare. In making this declaration, the Dominican Government entertains the hope that neither of the parties will spare its efforts to arrive at a final understanding which will permit definitively resolving the pending frontier question between both countries, in order that thus, with old motives of suspicion and distrust removed from their relations, they may unite with firmness their necessities and their aspirations on the road of civilization. The Dominican Government is certain that no other moment will be more propitious than is this for accomplishing its purpose of rapprochement between the two States, now that the evidences of cordiality and sympathy which both peoples have just offered on the occasion of the visits of their respective Chiefs of State, demonstrate with certainty that the differences which separated them in the past were the consequence of the little acquaintance which the two nations had of each other. This disposition, Mr. Minister, is indicative of the sincere desire, in which my Government persists, of furnishing a solution of the frontier difference and of arriving, in accordance with the provisions of our Public Law, contained in Article 3 of the Constitution of the State, at a conclusion of the difficulties which, in connection with that conflict, have separated our two peoples. The Dominican Government through me declares to the Haitian Government that it will make every effort it can to facilitate the understanding which it mentions, for the felicity of these peoples called, for many reasons, to live a similar future and to face a similar destiny. I approve the opportunity [etc.] Rafael Augusto Sanchez

[Enclosure 2—Translation] The Haitian Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Dejean ) to the Dominican Minister for Foreign Affairs ( Sanchez ) [ Santo Domingo ,] January 21, 1928 . Mr. Secretary of State : I have transmitted to my Government the important communication which Your Excellency addressed to me [on the 20th of January instant], relative to the question of the frontiers, and I have received instructions to transmit to you the following: The Government of Haiti, equally convinced of the necessity, more imperious than ever, of consolidating, to perpetuate them through time, the relations of friendship and of good neighborhood which exist between the two countries, is happy to affirm again its conviction, in conformity with that of the Dominican Government, that it is expedient to put an end so soon as possible to the existing difficulties on the subject of the frontiers. It believes that the present time is particularly favorable to the realization of this accord, in view of the excellent disposition which animates the two Governments and which has just been so brilliantly manifested by the visits of the two Chiefs of State, a disposition which harmonizes completely with the sentiments of mutual sympathy so spontaneously expressed by the two peoples in the course of these visits. The Haitian Government in consequence declares itself ready to conclude, by direct negotiations with the Dominican Government and without recourse to arbitration, a treaty which definitely assures the drawing of the frontier on the basis of the possessions which the two States at present occupy and by means of reciprocal sacrifices in conformity with equity and with their common interest. The Haitian Government has the firm hope that the Dominican Government will spare no effort with a view to obtaining this frank, open solution, more in conformity with the permanent interest of the two nations. I am [etc.] Léon Dejean


---
## [d495] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/338

Santo Domingo , March 9, 1928 . [Received March 20.] No. 811

Sir : Confirming the Legation’s telegram No. 19 of March 8, 1928, Not printed. I have the honor to report that an informal agreement has been reached between the Haitian Minister and the special representative of the Dominican Government, Mr. Troncoso de la Concha, as to the line which should serve as the boundaries between the following points:—In the North, from the outlet of the river Massacre to Banica, and in the South, from the outlet of the river Pedernales to Jimani.

Northern Sector

The line agreed upon starts from the outlet of the Massacre river and follows the 1912 line (American line) to the junction point of the Massacre and Capotille rivers, near Acul Parisien, thence along the Capotille river to Lamine, thence in a southerly direction to Bois Pins, thence from Bois Pins to La Miel—La Guardia Vieja—Banica.

Southern Sector

From the outlet of the Pedernales river to Cabeza del Agua, thence to Boisdon—Bois Tombe—La Guasuma—Minguet—Jimani.

The remaining section of the line (Jimani to Banica) will probably present no serious difficulties. In the somewhat lengthy conferences which I have had with Minister of Foreign Affairs Sanchez and with the Haitian Minister, both were very optimistic as to the possibility of reaching a final and complete agreement.

While the conversations between the Haitian Minister and Mr. Troncoso de la Concha are from a technical standpoint to be regarded as informal, both parties have of course frequently consulted their respective Governments, and the agreement reported above has the approval of the Chief Executives of the two countries.

The Legation is in close touch with the matter, and in a quiet and discreet manner is doing everything possible and appropriate to assist in the effecting of a final settlement of this long-standing and troublesome question. The Department will be promptly apprised, by cable and despatch, of all further developments.

In the Legation’s telegram No. 18 of February 25, 1928 Not printed. through an inadvertence reference was made to Lake Enriquillo instead of Lake Saumatre.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d496] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/345

Santo Domingo , May 26, 1928 . [Received June 5.] No. 908

Sir : Supplementing previous reports in regard to the informal negotiations now in progress concerning the Haitian-Dominican boundary question, I have the honor to submit the following brief report respecting the present status of the negotiations.

Beginning at the North, an informal agreement has been reached with respect to the line from the mouth of the Dajabón river down to Toussaint, a small town about fifteen miles northeast of Lake del Fondo. Under the agreement the Dominican Government will receive from Haiti sufficient territory so that the road which now connects Banica and Restauración will lie entirely within Dominican territory.

As compensation for the territory referred to above, the Dominican Government has agreed to give Haiti all of Lake del Fondo, through which the status quo line now runs, and sufficient territory between Tierra Nueva and the edge of the lake so that the Haitians may travel around the lake, on the east and northern sides, without having to cross over into Dominican territory.

An agreement in principle has been reached with respect to the major portion of the line between Jimani and the mouth of the Pedernales river. One troublesome question, however, remains to be adjusted. A Haitian road leading north from the port of Anses-á-Pitre crosses the Pedernales river some eleven times near Banane. The Haitian Government is asking for the cession to it of a small strip of land, about four kilometers in length and one kilometer in width, at this point in order that this road may lie entirely within Haitian territory. The Dominican Government is reluctant to accede to this request and desires that the river shall serve as the boundary. As a compromise, the Dominican Government has informally suggested that that portion of the road which would traverse Dominican territory be internationalized. This suggestion appears to be unacceptable to the Haitian Minister.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Sanchez, with whom I informally conferred at length yesterday, informs me that he is entirely willing personally to accede to the Haitian request for the cession of the small strip of territory involved. He is arranging for a reconsideration of the matter by the Dominican commission and is hopeful that the matter can be adjusted. With the settlement of this remaining point an informal agreement will again have been reached with regard to the entire boundary.

The present session of Congress terminates tomorrow, but it is the intention of President Vasquez to convene the Congress in special session, so soon as an agreement shall have been reached, for the purpose of enacting the necessary legislation preparatory to the convoking of a constituent assembly for the purpose of amending Article 3 of the Constitution.

The Department will be kept promptly and fully informed of all developments.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d497] The Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Frost ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/349: Telegram

[Paraphrase]

Santo Domingo , July 30, 1928—5 p.m. [Received 8:55 p.m.]

45. Informal agreement on the Haitian boundary question was signed today.

Frost


---
## [d498] The Secretary of State to the Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Frost )
738.3915/349: Telegram

Washington , July 31, 1928—6 p.m.

16. Your 45, July 30, 5 p.m. When the agreement is made public please express to the President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs personally my hearty congratulations on this peaceful settlement of the long-standing dispute, an act which redounds greatly to the credit of both countries and sets a splendid example for others to follow. An identical message to be communicated to the respective Haitian officials was sent to the Legation in Haiti as telegram No. 41 of the same date (not printed).

Kellogg


---
## [d499] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
738.3915/372

Santo Domingo , November 13, 1928 . [Received November 24.] No. 1091

Sir : Supplementing the Legation’s despatch No. 1090, of November 10, 1928, Not printed. I have the honor to forward for the Department’s confidential information a translation of the projected Dominican-Haitian boundary treaty. Not printed. For text of the treaty as signed at Santo Domingo, Jan. 21, 1929, see League of Nations Treaty Series, vol. cv , p. 193. Ratifications were exchanged at Santo Domingo, Apr. 29, 1929. The text of the treaty has been informally agreed upon, but it has not yet been made public.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d601] The Secretary of State to the Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) The same, mutatis mutandis , on the same date to the Chargé in Haiti as telegram No. 33.
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./84: Telegram

Washington , June 28, 1928—1 p.m.

12. Pan American Airways which is now operating a mail and passenger service between Key West and Habana desires to inaugurate shortly, a bi-weekly passenger service between San Antonio, Cuba, and San Juan, Porto Rico, via Port au Prince and Santo Domingo. The Company is endeavoring to make an initial flight beginning next Monday and to inaugurate thereafter as promptly as possible a regular service. Please request permission of the Dominican authorities for a ship of the Pan American Airways to make the initial flight next Monday or as soon thereafter as possible and inquire whether the Government would also be disposed to give permission for the establishment of a regular service by this Company.

Kellogg


---
## [d602] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./85: Telegram

Santo Domingo , June 29, 1928—10 a.m. [Received 1:25 p.m.]

39. Department’s telegram 12, June 28, 1 p.m. Dominican authorities grant permission for initial flight and are favorably disposed towards establishment regular service but suggest formal arrangements for latter since landing facilities apparently necessary.

Young


---
## [d603] The Chargé in Haiti ( Gross ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./86: Telegram

Port au Prince , June 29, 1928—1 p.m. [Received 2:45 p.m.]

69. Department’s 33, June 28, 1 p.m. See footnote 64, p. 784 . Haitian Government authorizes ship of the Pan American Airways to make contemplated flight. Permission also granted to use local Marine Corps’ landing field for this flight. The question of the Government granting permission for establishment of a regular service by this company will be considered but anticipate no difficulty in this regard. See my despatch No. 1050, August 8, 1927, High Commissioner’s Series. Not printed. Please request pilot to telegraph ahead day and hour of arrival here.

Gross


---
## [d612] The Acting Secretary of State to the Chargé in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) The same, mutatis mutandis , on the same date to the Chargé in Haiti as telegram No. 60.
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./127: Telegram

Washington , September 10, 1928—6 p.m.

24. The Department is informed that Mr. P. E. D. Nagle, representing the Pan American Airways, Incorporated, is proceeding to the Dominican Republic in connection with the taking over by his firm of the West Indies Aerial Express for the establishment of a commercial air service between Miami, Florida and San Juan, Porto Rico. Mr. Nagle and the Pan American Airways are well and favorably known to the Department and you are instructed to accord him such assistance as may be possible and proper.

Clark


---
## [d614] The Assistant Secretary of State ( White ) to the Chargé in France ( Armour )
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./186

Washington , September 26, 1928 .

Dear Norman : Mr. Juan E. Trippe, President of the Pan American Airways, Incorporated, 100 East 42d Street, New York City, is sailing early in October for Paris where he may take up negotiations with the Latécoère Company.

The Pan American Airways, Incorporated, is a one hundred per cent American company; all its officers and all its capital are American and so are its equipment and pilots. For nearly a year now it has been operating between Key West and Habana carrying mails and passengers and is about to open operations from Miami. Some two or three months ago the Post Office Department awarded this company a ten year contract for the carrying of mails to the Canal Zone via Cuba, Mexico and Central America, and another ten year contract for the carrying of mails to Porto Rico via Cuba, Haiti and the Dominican Republic. The company is now working out in the countries it has to pass through the necessary formalities for the establishment of the service. Eventually, the company desires to extend its activities down the west coast of South America to Chile, thence across the Andes to Buenos Aires and perhaps from Porto Rico via Trinidad to Venezuela, and thence down the east coast of South America.

In any event, we consider of the utmost importance that American airlines should be established in this hemisphere and especially in the Caribbean region. The French are already very active, as you know, in running a service from Paris to Dakar by airplane; thence to the Brazilian coast by steamer, and thence to Rio and Buenos Aires by airplane, and the German so-called Scadta Company Sociedad Colombo-Alemana de Transportes Aereos. is very active in Colombia and the Germans are also active in Bolivia, Peru and Ecuador. Mr. Trippe will probably want to discuss matters with the Latecoere Company and try to make some arrangement with them and any assistance that the Embassy can render him will be most highly appreciated I assure you.

With kindest regards [etc.]

Francis White


---
## [d616] The Minister in the Dominican Republic ( Young ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./145

Santo Domingo , October 15, 1928 . [Received October 23.] No. 1058

Sir : Adverting to the Department’s telegram No. 24 of September 10, 1928, regarding the Pan American Airways, Incorporated, I have the honor to report that representatives of this company, Messrs. Nagle and MacGregor, were here recently for a few days in the interests of this company. They were introduced by the Legation to President Vasquez and the Minister of Finance to whom they outlined the company’s plans with respects to the establishment of a commercial air service between Miami, Florida, and San Juan, Porto Rico. The President and Minister de Moya stated that the establishment of the proposed service would be cordially welcomed by the Dominican Government which would gladly accord every possible facility and assistance.

It is understood that Mr. Nagle will return to Santo Domingo in the near future and will then endeavor to reach a formal agreement and undertaking with the Government.

The Legation was happy to accord to these gentlemen during their stay here every possible and proper assistance.

I have [etc.]

Evan E. Young


---
## [d617] The High Commissioner in Haiti ( Russell ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./166

Port au Prince , November 26, 1928 . [Received December 6.] No. 1324

Sir : I have the honor to report that the officials of the Pan-American Airways, Inc., have recently been in Haiti and have taken up with me the question of obtaining a concession or contract with the Haitian government. There is attached hereto a copy of the contract first proposed by the Pan-American Airways, Inc. There is also attached a memorandum giving the views of the treaty officials on the proposed contract. Not printed.

The Pan-American Airways, Inc., is in agreement except as to article 8, and it proposed a new article 8, copy attached.

A few days ago President Borno spoke to me on this subject and said that he believed that the Haitian government should assist this new industry in Haiti which he thought would be of material benefit to the country, and that, as a consequence, he was prepared to heartily endorse article 8 submitted by the company allowing exemption from taxes and payment of import duties on gasoline, oils, special tools, and spare parts. The representative of the Pan-American Airways, Inc., at Port au Prince informs me that other governments have already agreed to a clause similar to the proposed article 8, and while from a financial point of view the question is one of small moment, from a political point of view the rejection of this clause by Haiti would be serious, in as much as other countries have readily agreed to it and would be unable to understand how Haiti was to be excepted.

Dr. Millspaugh, the Financial Adviser-General Receiver is strongly opposed to the inclusion of this clause in the contract. I feel that in view of the fact that the work is pioneer work, that it will unquestionably be a decided benefit to Haiti and form one of those ties that I am trying to develop which will bind Haiti to the United States commercially in such manner as to assure the future stability of this country, that it would be perfectly proper to permit the desired exemption, particularly in view of the fact that President Borno, representing Haiti, is strongly in favor of it.

The representative of the Pan-American Airways, Inc., has just presented a new article, copy attached, which he desires incorporated in the proposed contract as article 16. This article is now being studied. At first glance I am not in particular sympathy with it, and do not believe that there would be much difficulty in having it eliminated, particularly if article 8, as proposed by the company was included in the contract.

It is requested that the Department inform me by telegraph its views regarding article 8 proposed by the company, in order that the representative of the Pan-American Airways, Inc., may take up this question with the Haitian government to the end that the contract may be consummated at an early date.

I have [etc.]

John H. Russell

[Enclosure 1—Extract] Proposed Contract Between the Republic of Haiti and the Pan American Airways, Inc. Eighth In view of the fact that the Company asks no subsidy or subvention of any kind from the Government, and because of the value of the services the Company will render, the Government agrees that the Company shall be free from all taxes, federal and municipal, and that the present import and export duties on airships, gasoline, oils, and material and supplies of every kind used in the establishment or operation of its business shall not be increased. The Company shall have free use of the internal mails, telegraph, telephone, and radio systems, but only for matters relating to the Company’s own business.

[Enclosure 2] Draft Article 8 Proposed by the Pan American Airways, Inc. Article 8. In consideration of the value to the Haitian Government of the services of the Company (Pan American Airways, Inc.,) will render, and to assist the Company in initiating and maintaining the most efficient service, the Haitian Government agrees that, for a period of Ten Years, the Company shall be exempted from all taxes, federal and municipal, and from the payment of all import duties on airplane Gasoline, Oils and Special Tools and Spare Parts to be used exclusively in the establishment and operation of its business.

[Enclosure 3] Draft Article 16 Proposed by the Pan American Airways, Inc. The Company agrees that it will carry under a scale of tariffs to be fixed by agreement between the Government and the Company, all Haitian air mail to Porto Rico, Santo Domingo, Cuba and the United States. The Government agrees that it will not deliver to any other person or company any Haitian air mail to the foregoing countries so long as the total amount of air mail does not exceed twenty-five percent. (25%) of the total first-class mail from Haiti to those countries. The Company shall have the right to arrange a revision of the air mail tariffs when improvements in the service or increase in the volume of the air mail make the revision of such tariffs advisable.


---
## [d618] The High Commissioner in Haiti ( Russell ) to the Secretary of State
810.79611 Pan American Airways, Inc./167

Port au Prince , November 28, 1928 . [Received December 6.] No. 1327

Sir : Referring to my Despatch No. 1324 of November 26th, 1928, I have the honor to inform the Department that this morning I had a conference with representatives of the Pan-American Airways, Inc., and it appears that they are very desirous of having Article 16 incorporated in the proposed contract.

The Financial Adviser-General Receiver is of the opinion that the second sentence of this Article would grant a monopoly of the most objectionable sort. He further feels that the Haitian Government should not obligate itself to send mails by the services of this Company before an agreement has been reached as to rates. He also believes that the third sentence is objectionable in that it might be construed as giving the Company the right to revise rates upward as well as downward and without the consent of the other party. He recommended that in place of this Article the following be substituted:— “The Company agrees that it will carry, under tariffs to be fixed from time to time by agreement with the Government, the air mails delivered to the Company by the postal service of the Republic, subject to the limitation as to total weight fixed elsewhere in the present contract.”

The Pan-American Airways states that Article 16 is not in the nature of a monopoly but is preferential treatment due to the fact that the Company is performing pioneer work. It further states that it is very desirous of having this Article as well as Article 8, incorporated in the contract with a view to assisting the Company in obtaining similar provisions in contracts with other countries. And that if these Articles were left out of the Haitian contract it would be very difficult to incorporate them in other contracts, also that they already exist, particularly in the contract with Nicaragua which contract met with the approval of the Department of State.

It would appear that Article 16 gives to the Company an unqualified monopoly and I am quite aware of the Department’s attitude Regarding monopolies. But I feel that the benefits accruing to Haiti from the contemplated services of this Company are such as to permit of the most liberal action on the part of the Haitian Government.

I would therefore suggest that the Department, while not approving of the monopolistic features of Article 16, not object to the giving of this Article as well as Article 8 in the proposed contract, if the Haitian Government so desires.

I have [etc.]

John H. Russell


---
## [d673] The Secretary of State to the Ambassador in Argentina ( Bliss )
811.79620 Boeing Airplane Co./34: Telegram

Washington , September 26, 1928—3 p.m.

38. Department of Commerce states that Captain Ralph A. O’Neil, who was in charge of the Boeing expedition, See pp. 818 ff. negotiated with Argentine postal authorities a very favorable air mail concession. Upon his return to the United States he endeavored to interest Boeing Company in financing it but they declined and the Remington-Rand Corporation has agreed to finance it.

In view of the fact that the time limit within which O’Neil was to notify Argentine authorities that he was able adequately to finance the project has practically expired, he anticipates there may be some difficulty in actually securing the grant. Department of Commerce states that if you were informed that O’Neil has secured adequate financing for the project you might be in a position to assist in getting the concession.

As European Governments are reported to have already secured a foothold in Argentina, the Department would of course be glad to have American interests obtain contracts there also.

For your information the Post Office Department has already given contracts to an American Company to carry air mails to Panama via Central America and to Porto Rico via Cuba, Haiti, and the Dominican Republic. See telegram No. 60, July 11, to the Minister in Honduras, p. 786 . It is hoped eventually to extend these lines from the Canal Zone down the west coast of South America and across to Buenos Aires and from Porto Rico to Venezuela and down the east coast of South America.

Kellogg


---
## [d790] The Secretary of State to the Minister in Austria ( Washburn )
711.632/22b

Washington , April 2, 1927 . No. 566

Sir : The following instructions in regard to Article VII of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Consular Eights which you are engaged in negotiating with Austria are supplemental to the Department’s instructions No. 527 of December 1, 1926, and No. 552 of February 11, 1927.

Article VII. Importations, exportations, most favored nation clause, etc . The Department desires that you propose to the Austrian Government certain further additions to the text of Article VII relating particularly to indirect shipments, to quotas and licenses for the importation or exportation of restricted goods and to customs formalities. As the United States does not require certificates of origin to accompany imports from foreign countries and maintains no prohibitions except for sanitary or other special reasons, there is no such condition facing Austrian commerce in this country as faces American commerce in a number of European countries.

Second paragraph . In view of the difficulties that have been encountered by American merchandise in obtaining most favored nation treatment in countries which import largely from warehouses in third countries, this Government desires that the Treaty specifically stipulate that American products shall enjoy equality of treatment from whatever place arriving. It has been decided, therefore, to endeavor to have a provision designed to protect indirect trade inserted in the treaties of friendship, commerce and consular rights which the United States shall hereafter conclude. The following paragraph which it is proposed to substitute for the second paragraph of Article VII of the draft of the Treaty with Austria will also be proposed in drafts submitted to other countries:

[Here follows the second paragraph of draft article VII quoted infra. ]

Fourth paragraph . As you are aware a number of countries, particularly countries in Central Europe, have established systems of licenses and of rations or quotas for imports and exports. In some of these countries it has developed that in practice American commerce has been discriminated against. In this situation the Department deems it wise to make express provision in Article VII of the treaty in regard to the treatment which shall be accorded to American commerce in respect of licenses, quotas and contingents. In thus attempting to assure for American commerce treatment which shall be not less favorable than that accorded to other nations in the matter of licenses and of rations or quotas, this Government is not proposing to insert in its Treaty with Austria a provision which will be unique. The same provision will be proposed in treaties of friendship, commerce and consular rights which the United States will undertake to negotiate with other countries.

The Department understands that Austria is a party to the International Convention Relating to the Simplification of Customs Formalities signed at Geneva November 3, 1923, League of Nations Treaty Series, vol. xxx , p. 371. which contains stipulations in regard to prohibitions, restrictions and licenses, and that the matter of prohibitions and licenses is also dealt with in Article 9 of the Anglo-Austrian Treaty of May 22, 1924. Ibid , vol. xxxv , pp. 175, 180. Under the most favored nation provisions of Article VII of the draft under negotiation as interpreted by the Department, the obligations of Austria under the two above mentioned agreements would be extended to the United States. Accordingly, it is not desired by this Government to incorporate in extenso in the Treaty of the United States with Austria the stipulations of the convention and treaty referred to.

This Government desires, however, that you propose to the Austrian Government that the following paragraph, which is an adaptation and amplification of a provision contained in the second paragraph of exchanges of notes signed by the United States with several countries (Poland, February 10, 1925, Treaty Series No. 727; Finland, May 2, 1925, Treaty Series No. 715; Estonia, March 2, 1925, Treaty Series No. 722; Rumania, February 26, 1926, Treaty Series No. 733; Latvia, February 1, 1926, Treaty Series No. 740; Lithuania, December 23, 1925, Treaty Series No. 742; and Haiti, July 8, 1926, Treaty Series No. 746) For notes exchanged with Estonia, Finland, Lithuania, and Poland, see Foreign Relations , 1925, vol. ii , pp. 66 ff., pp. 86 ff., pp. 500 ff., and pp. 692 ff.; for those with Haiti, Latvia, and Rumania, see ibid. , 1926, vol. ii , pp. 401 ff., pp. 488 ff., and pp. 898 ff. and of a part of Article IX of the Anglo-Austrian Treaty, be inserted in Article VII of the draft treaty under negotiation as the fourth paragraph thereof:

[Here follows the fourth paragraph of draft article VII quoted infra. ]

Fifth paragraph . One further change in Article VII is suggested, It has developed that in certain customs districts of some countries there is a practice of affording to some favored nation privileges not accorded to American commerce. It appears that as such practice is not the result of any express provision of treaty, laws, or regulations, it may be claimed that it is not within the most favored nation provisions of the fourth paragraph of the draft as originally written, now the fifth paragraph. While this Government has not concurred in such an interpretation of that paragraph, it proposes, in order to avoid misunderstandings in regard to such practices, to insert in the paragraph the phrase “by treaty, law, decree, regulation, practice or otherwise.” As the proposed phrase only clarifies and does not alter the meaning of the paragraph, it is hoped that the Austrian Government will have no objection to its acceptance.

The complete text of Article VII revised in accordance with the foregoing suggestions is as follows: “ Article vii “Between the territories of the High Contracting Parties there shall be freedom of commerce and navigation. The nationals of each of the High Contracting Parties equally with those of the most favored nation, shall have liberty freely to come with their vessels and cargoes to all places, ports and waters of every kind within the territorial limits of the other which are or may be open to foreign commerce and navigation. Nothing in this treaty shall be construed to restrict the right of either High Contracting Party to impose, on such terms as it may see fit, prohibitions or restrictions of a sanitary character designed to protect human, animal or plant life, or regulations for the enforcement of police or revenue laws. “Each of the High Contracting Parties binds itself unconditionally to impose no higher or other duties or charges or bases of such duties or charges, and no conditions or prohibition on the importation of any article, the growth, produce or manufacture of the territories of the other Party, from whatever place arriving, than are or shall be imposed on the importation of any like article, the growth, produce or manufacture of any other foreign country; nor shall any such duties, charges, conditions or prohibitions on importations be made effective retroactively on imports already cleared through the customs, or on goods declared for entry into consumption in the country. “Each of the High Contracting Parties also binds itself unconditionally to impose no higher or other charges or other restrictions or prohibitions on goods exported to the territories of the other High Contracting Party than are imposed on goods exported to any other foreign country. “In the event of licenses being issued by either of the High Contracting Parties for the importation into or exportation from its territories of articles the importation or exportation of which is restricted or prohibited, the conditions under which such licenses may be obtained shall be publicly announced and clearly stated in such a manner as to enable traders interested to become acquainted with them; the method of licensing shall be as simple and unvarying as possible and applications for licenses shall be dealt with as speedily as possible. Moreover, the conditions under which such licenses are issued by either of the High Contracting Parties for goods imported from or exported to the territories of the other Party shall be as favorable with respect to commodities, formalities and otherwise as the conditions under which licenses are issued in respect of any other foreign country. In the event of rations or quotas being established for the importation or exportation of articles restricted or prohibited, each of the High Contracting Parties agrees to grant for the importation from or exportation to the territories of the other Party an equitable share, in view of the normal volume of trade in the particular class of goods between the two countries, in the allocation of the quantity of restricted goods which may be authorized for importation or exportation. In the application of the provisions of this paragraph no distinction shall be made between direct and indirect shipments. It is agreed, moreover, that in the event either High Contracting Party shall be engaged in war, it may enforce such import or export restrictions as may be required by the national interest. “Any advantage of whatsoever kind which either High Contracting Party may extend, by treaty, law, decree, regulation, practice or otherwise, to any article, the growth, produce or manufacture of any other foreign country shall simultaneously and unconditionally, without request and without compensation, be extended to the like article the growth, produce or manufacture of the other High Contracting Party. “With respect to the amount and collection of duties on imports and exports of every kind, each of the two High Contracting Parties binds itself to give to the nationals, vessels and goods of the other the advantage of every favor, privilege or immunity which it shall have accorded to the nationals, vessels and goods of a third State, whether such favored State shall have been accorded such treatment gratuitously or in return for reciprocal compensatory treatment. Every such favor, privilege or immunity which shall hereafter be granted the nationals, vessels or goods of a third State shall simultaneously and unconditionally, without request and without compensation, be extended to the other High Contracting Party, for the benefit of itself, its nationals and vessels. “The stipulations of this Article do not extend to the treatment which is accorded by the United States to the commerce of Cuba under the provisions of the Commercial Convention concluded by the United States and Cuba on December 11, 1902, Foreign Relations , 1903, p. 375 . or any other commercial convention which hereafter may be concluded by the United States with Cuba, or to the commerce of the United States with any of its dependencies and the Panama Canal Zone under existing or future laws.”

You will note that in the above quoted draft of Article VII no exception in favor of Austrian trade with Czechoslovakia or Hungary is included. Should the Austrian Government insist on such an exception, you will recall that you are authorized to agree to it in the terms set out on page 2 of instruction No. 527 of December 1, 1926.

It is believed that if Article VII as set out above is accepted by Austria a sufficient assurance will have been given of equality of treatment for the commerce of the United States with that of every other country. As equality of treatment of Austrian commerce with that of other foreign countries in the United States is secured by the Treaty, it is believed that the interests of both parties will be conserved by the Article as re-drafted.

Article XXV. Duration and termination of Treaty . The inclusion of the new paragraph proposed above as the fourth paragraph of Article VII may necessitate a change in the provisions of the third paragraph of Article XXV relating to the termination of the Treaty. You will recall that a suggested new paragraph of Article VII was set out on page 3 of instruction No. 527 of December 1, 1926, and that a special mode of termination was provided for it on pages 22 and 23 of instruction No. 552 of February 11, 1927. With the insertion of the new fourth paragraph quoted above, it will be necessary to reconsider Article XXV, so that the paragraph proposed on page 3 of instruction No. 527, if included in the Treaty shall be referred to by its proper number.

I am [etc.]

Frank B. Kellogg
